
Hello Andrew,

The bottom line is that there is no reliable, empirical evidence for any god -- especially the god of the Christian type.  People have been trying for thousands of years to prove there's a god, and all have failed.  So, based on the evidence, I say that there is no god (just like there's no Easter Bunny, Santa Claus, or Roman or Greek gods).

There is also no reliable evidence that Jesus ever existed, other than as a myth.  He may or may not have lived; there's just no historical evidence.  The Christian bible is a lousy source of morality, condoning slavery, child beating, and killing in the name of its god.  Religion is often used as a way to control the populace, to keep them down.

Since you asked, I was raised as a Methodist, and eventually realized that the story of the Christian god is just that -- a story, with no more truth than the stories of all the other gods.

If you'd like to read more of what I think, you can read my talk on Atheism at http://www.godlessgeeks.com/WhyAtheism.htm

If you's like to read over 300 Proofs of God’s Existence, see http://www.godlessgeeks.com/LINKS/GodProof.htm

Here's a favorite quote of mine:
"Religion has ever been anti-human, anti-woman, anti-life, anti-peace, anti-reason and anti-science. The god idea has been detrimental not only to humankind but to the earth. It is time now for reason, education and science to take over."
-- Madalyn Murray O'Hair, 1990

Sincerely,
Mark Thomas


----Original Message Follows----
From: "Andrew Alexander" <drew51502@hotmail.com>
To: m_w_thomas@hotmail.com
Subject: Found you on your website...
Date: Fri, 07 Nov 2003 19:21:14 -0600

Hello!  Before you read this, I request that you please mail me back, as I would like to hear from you.  I found you as the only contact on your web site of Athiests of Silicon Valley.  I would like to know why you don't believe in God.  I would also like to challenge you to prove God out of existence.  I'm not sure of your educational background, but I'm assuming you're an intelligent individual.  Please humor my request, even though I'm of the "Religious Right".  By the way, I find the term religion to be a very broad term, applying to any spiritual practice or, for that matter, any regular (consistent) practice, i.e. "I run 3 miles a day religiously", etc.  I would also like your view on truth and morals (do you believe in "moral relativism", and so on).  I really appreciate your time, and look forward to hearing from you.  I would also like to know if you have ever read from the Bible, been to a Christian worship service, bible study, etc. (just out of curiosity of your spiritual (or lack of {no pun}) background).  Have a great day, and please respond!  Thanks!   -Believer in Christ