1.  Most Blues begin with: "Woke up this morning..."

2. "I got a good woman" is a bad way to begin the Blues, unless you
    stick something nasty in the next line like, "I got a good woman, with the
    meanest face in town."

3. The Blues is simple. After you get the first line right, repeat it.
   Then find something that rhymes - sort of: "Got a good woman with the
   meanest face in town. Yes, I got a good woman with the meanest face in
   town.  Got teeth like Margaret Thatcher and she weigh 500 pound."

4. The Blues is not about choice. You stuck in a ditch, you stuck in a
   ditch ... ain't no way out.

5. Blues cars: Chevys, Fords, Cadillacs and broken-down trucks. Blues
   don't travel in Volvos, BMWs, or Sport Utility Vehicles. Most Blues
   transportation is a Greyhound bus or a southbound train. Jet aircraft and
   state-sponsored motor pools ain't even in the running. Walkin' plays a
   major part in the Blues lifestyle.  So does fixin' to die.

6. Teenagers can't sing the Blues. They ain't fixin' to die yet. Adults
   sing the Blues. In Blues, "adulthood" means being old enough to get the
   electric chair if you shoot a man in Memphis.

7. Blues can take place in New York City but not in Hawaii or anywhere
   in Canada. Hard times in Minneapolis or Seattle is probably just clinical
   depression. Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, Memphis, and Nawlins are
   still the best places to have the Blues. You cannot have the Blues in
   any place that don't get rain.

8. A man with male pattern baldness ain't the Blues.  A woman with male
   pattern baldness is.  Breaking your leg 'cause you were skiing is not
   the Blues.  Breaking your leg 'cause a alligator be chomping on it is.

9. You can't have no Blues in an office or a shopping mall. The lighting
   is wrong. Go outside to the parking lot or sit by the dumpster.

10. Good places for the Blues
      a. highway
      b. jailhouse
      c. empty bed
      d. bottom of a whiskey glass

11. Bad places for the Blues
      a. Nordstrom
      b. gallery openings
      c. Ivy League institutions
      d. golf courses

12. No one will believe it's the Blues if you wear a suit, 'less you
    happen to be an old person, and you slept in it.

13. Do you have the right to sing the Blues?
      Yes, if:
      a. you're older than dirt
      b. you're blind
      c. you shot a man in Memphis
      d. you can't be satisfied
      No, if:
      a. you have all your teeth
      b. you were once blind but now can see
      c. the man in Memphis lived
      d. you have a 401K or trust fund

14. Blues is not a matter of color. It's a matter of bad luck. Tiger Woods
    cannot sing the Blues. Sonny Liston could have. Ugly white people also
    got a leg up on the Blues.

15. If you ask for water and your darlin' gives you gasoline, it's the
      Blues. Other acceptable Blues beverages are:
      a. cheap wine
      b. whiskey or bourbon
      c. muddy water
      d. black coffee
      The following are NOT Blues beverages:
      a. Perrier
      b. Chardonnay
      c. Snapple
      d. Slim Fast

16. If death occurs in a cheap motel or a shotgun shack, it's a Blues
    death.  Stabbed in the back by a jealous lover is another Blues way to die.
    So are the electric chair, substance abuse and dying lonely on a broken-down
    cot. You can't have a Blues death if you die during a tennis match or
    while getting liposuction.

17. Some Blues names for women:
      a. Sadie
      b. Big Mama
      c. Bessie
      d. Fat River Dumpling

18. Some Blues names for men:
      a. Joe
      b. Willie
      c. Little Willie
      d. Big Willie

19. Persons with names like Michelle, Amber, Jennifer, Debbi, or
    Heather can't sing the Blues no matter how many men they shoot in Memphis.

20. Blues Name Starter Kit
      a. name of physical infirmity (Blind, Cripple, Lame, etc.)
      b. first name (see above) plus name of fruit (Lemon, Lime, Kiwi, etc.)
      c. last name of President (Jefferson, Johnson, Fillmore, etc.)
      For example: Blind Lime Jefferson, Pegleg Lemon Johnson or Cripple Kiwi
      Fillmore, etc. (Well, maybe not "Kiwi.")

21. I don't care how tragic your life is: if you own a computer, you
    cannot sing the blues, period.
