ON EASTER

     "The things you are liable to read in the Bible, they ain't necessarily so." 
-- Porgy and Bess

     Easter is the High Holy Day of the Christian religion.  In its many
manifestations, Easter celebrates the myth of the reanimation from death of
the god Jesus, aka the Christ.  Like its womb mate Christmas, Easter is a
marvelous blend of Christian and non-Christian nonsense.  The Christian side
is represented by "Handel's Messiah" and hot cross buns (a seasonal pastry
with a sugar cross on it) and the non-Christian nonsense side by "In Your
Easter Bonnet..." and hunts for Easter Eggs (dyed boiled eggs in the
shell--laid, young minds are taught to believe, by rabbits.  Some hold the
rabbits don't lay the eggs, only deliver them. What do you think?). 
     To understand the phenomena of Easter, one must understand the Christian
"Gospels."  These four small propagandist tracts, written long after the
supernatural fact, by unknown authors who did not know Jesus, contain the
only known evidence for the existence of Jesus.  Believers will argue other
historic proofs, but these are provable forgeries added centuries later by
pious priests who copied or translated Jewish, Roman and Greek texts.  If
the ancient writers had deliberately omitted Jesus merely because they had
never heard of him, this error was often fixed for later Christian editions.
The only evidence for Easter beliefs comes from the gospels.
     Here's a neat bible study exercise for non believers.  It will help you
learn something of the Christian belief system and will prove useful in the
American Religious Civil War when believers try to force you to play in
their sandbox.  Read all four gospels and, including every fact contained
within them, write a concise, non contradictory chronology of what happened
between the time Jesus was crucified on a stake (the Greek word translates
"stake" not "cross" -- tell that to your preacher and watch him ring them
bells) and the moment he went up to Heaven.  Then you will know what
Christians believe.  To make the challenge more exciting, be sure to include
facts, for the same time frame, from "The Acts of the Apostles" and from the
letters of Paul.  Paul really got Christianity going.  He claimed to have
seen Jesus after Jesus had gone to Heaven.  Lots of people believed him.
Lots of people believed Joseph Smith too.  Joseph Smith wrote "The Book of
Mormon" and claimed an angel helped him translate buried gold plates the
angel later reburied.  At least Paul had honest delusions.
     The reason the death of Jesus is of importance to Christians is because if
they believe Jesus died for their sins they get to live forever with him
when they die.  Because Jesus survived death, believers will too.  Somehow
Jesus' "sacrifice" doesn't seem like such a big deal, being a god and all,
and getting to come alive again after being dead only one day and two
nights.  Many people have died for others and have stayed dead.  There
should be no shortage of volunteers willing to die to save everyone forever
and be worshipped as a god if they could come alive again after being dead
between Friday evening and Sunday morning.  
     Once you finish the bible stories about Jesus, you may well wonder how
anyone could believe this stuff, and you should understand why the events
were omitted from every other history of that time.  When Jesus died on the
stake, the bible reports that dead people came out of their graves (whether
decomposed or not isn't revealed), walked around the city and were
recognized by many.  This should have provoked some interest by the scandal
sheets of the day, but no other reference is found of it.  We might wonder
if the risen dead sued to get their property back from their useless heirs.
     You will note from your Easter biblical studies that the primary witness to
the resurrection of the Christ was one Mary Magdalene, a woman thought to be
a prostitute who had been possessed by seven demons, i.e., she was nuts.
Wouldn't it have been nice if the risen savior of the world had appeared in
all his glory to the Roman Senate where literate rational humanists could
have recorded an accurate account of this miracle?  Why have your immortal
soul hang in the balance on less than credible evidence? Should one accept
that laws of nature have been broken and that a dead body has come alive
again on the word of a deranged hooker?  Would a just, rational,
compassionate god condemn one to eternal torment for doubting such evidence?
Clearly the Senate, or even a meeting of the Aqueduct Committee, would have
been a better place to break the good news of salvation.
     But we are not dealing with a rational god or even decent moral behavior in
the Easter story.  The god the myth says was the father of Jesus believed in
child sacrifice.  Previously content with blood drained from the slashed
throats of sheep, goats and such, god needed more gore to save everyone.  He
wanted his own kid killed as a blood sacrifice for the sins of the world.
This is what little children (kids) are taught in Sunday School (that's
where Christians violate the Fourth Commandment by worshipping on the first
day of the week instead of the seventh as god ordered -- no wonder we are in
such trouble).  But if child murder for the sins of others isn't bad enough,
consider this.  Christians celebrate the death and rebirth of the god Jesus
in a grotesque cannibalistic ritual of (symbolically if Protestant; for real
if Roman Catholic) eating his flesh and drinking his blood!  This bizarre
custom is known as "Holy Communion" -- dare we call it "swallow the leader?" 
     If Jesus rose from the dead, and if he went to Heaven, and if Heaven is
outside the known universe, and if the laws of nature invented by god apply
to god, then Jesus could not travel faster than the speed of light.  If he
left for Heaven two thousand years ago, he isn't there yet, and won't be
there for some time.  Therefore, we really need not concern ourselves at
this point about his return to earth.  Presumably he will return sometime
after he gets there.      
     So now you know about Easter.  You will probably be a happier and better
adjusted human being if you stick to the Easter Parade and pass on the
eating of human flesh and blood.  And please remember that this disgusting
rite is practiced in buildings owned by Christian groups who do not have to
pay taxes on their property or income.  
     And the next time some un American lunatics want to have forced Christian
prayer in public schools, tell them you are a spiritual vegetarian. Happy
Easter.

Edwin Kagin, http://www.edwinkagin.com/
April, 1995