Mon, 7 Apr 2003 15:10:45

Your subscription  to the NEWSLETTER-CA14 list  (Rep. Eshoo's Newsletter)
has been accepted.

Please save this message for future  reference, especially if this is the
first time you are subscribing to an electronic mailing list. If you ever
need to leave  the list, you will find the  necessary instructions below.
Perhaps  more importantly,  saving a  copy of  this message  (and of  all
future subscription notices  from other mailing lists) in  a special mail
folder will give you instant access to the list of mailing lists that you
are subscribed  to. This may  prove very useful the  next time you  go on
vacation and  need to leave  the lists temporarily so  as not to  fill up
your  mailbox while  you  are away!  You should  also  save the  "welcome
messages" from the  list owners that you will  occasionally receive after
subscribing to a new list.

You may leave the list at any time by sending a "SIGNOFF NEWSLETTER-CA14"
command to  LISTSERV@LS1.HOUSE.GOV. You  can also  tell LISTSERV  how you
want it to confirm  the receipt of messages you send to  the list. If you
do not trust  the system, send a "SET NEWSLETTER-CA14  REPRO" command and
LISTSERV will send you  a copy of your own messages, so  that you can see
that the  message was  distributed and  did not get  damaged on  the way.
After a while  you may find that this is  getting annoying, especially if
your mail program does not tell you  that the message is from you when it
informs you that new mail has arrived from NEWSLETTER-CA14. If you send a
"SET NEWSLETTER-CA14 ACK NOREPRO" command, LISTSERV will mail you a short
acknowledgement  instead,  which  will  look different  in  your  mailbox
directory. With most mail programs you will know immediately that this is
an  acknowledgement  you  can  read  later. Finally,  you  can  turn  off
acknowledgements completely with "SET NEWSLETTER-CA14 NOACK NOREPRO".

Following  instructions from  the list  owner, your  subscription options
have been set to "MIME" rather than the usual LISTSERV defaults. For more
information about  subscription options,  send a  "QUERY NEWSLETTER-CA14"
command to LISTSERV@LS1.HOUSE.GOV.

Please note that  it is presently possible for other  people to determine
that  you are  signed up  to the  list through  the use  of the  "REVIEW"
command,  which  returns   the  e-mail  address  and  name   of  all  the
subscribers. If  you do not  want your name to  be visible, just  issue a
"SET NEWSLETTER-CA14 CONCEAL" command.

More  information on  LISTSERV  commands  can be  found  in the  LISTSERV
reference  card, which  you can  retrieve  by sending  an "INFO  REFCARD"
command to LISTSERV@LS1.HOUSE.GOV.

