To whom it may concern:

There's a national effort to promote creationism in the public
schools, which affects the teaching of evolution in one way or another
in every local school district in the U.S., as far as I know.
Organizations like the Discovery Institute <http://www.discovery.org/>
are leading the way, led by people like Phillip Johnson.
Organizations like the National Center for Science Education
<http://www.ncseweb.org/> are involved at the national level to
counter these efforts by creationists.

I don't know what's going on in your particular school district, but
to get the flavor of the local effects of this national campaign by
creationists, here's a report put out by People for the American Way:
<http://pfaw.org/issues/education/creationism_report.pdf>

I have a suggestion for a new tactic to use in the fight against this
campaign.  Please feel free to pass it around to whoever you'd like
to.  Even if nobody thinks it's good enough to act upon, it still
might stimulate somebody to think of a better idea along similar
lines.

Anyway, here is a brief summary of my idea.

First, here are some general observations to put the issue in context:

It has become increasingly clear lately to what extent creationist
tactics have been evolving, adapting to circumstances.  Having lost in
the courts, they shift to school boards and textbook committees.  If
so-called "Creation Science" is declared unconstitutional, so-called
"Intelligent Design Theory" is put forward as an alternative.  If
supporters of the integrity of science education become well-organized
and raise awareness among educators and the general public about this
issue and disseminate information about how to counter creationist
arguments, the creationists devise a "Wedge strategy" to mobilize and
direct their own forces in order to intensify their efforts.  While
there has been success so far in keeping creationism out of science
classes, the net effect of the controversy has been the glossing-over
or watering-down of evolution in public school textbooks and
curricula.  I would maintain that this, and not the actual injection
of creationism into science classes, is the real aim of the
creationists' strategy.

There has been a certain reluctance on the part of many in the
pro-science community to give the devil his due (so to speak), and to
recognize their capacity for innovating new tactics, and to recognize
their political skill in maintaining the morale of their forces in the
face of their many tactical defeats.  There has also been a certain
reluctance on our part to experiment with more innovative approaches
of our own, preferring instead the tried-and-true methods which have
largely kept creationism out of science classes so far.
Unfortunately, like I said, the real strategy of the creationists
seems to be to keep the pot boiling enough to make the politicians
feel the heat and compromise by glossing-over or watering-down the
teaching of evolution.  In this regard, they have been largely
successful.  Therefore, these tried-and-true methods have not, so far,
fully served the interests of our public school students, who are thus
deprived of an adequate science education.  I say we need to
supplement these methods with more innovative tactics of our own, and
to increase our own level of political skill in order to counter the
strategy and tactics of the anti-scientists.  And this requires
debate, discussion, the sharing of ideas, and imagination on our
part--and the willingness to try new things to see if they work.  

The status quo suits the creationists just fine.  If it suits us just
fine too, then they've already won.  To me, the status quo is
unacceptable.  Our strategy should be to change this status quo and
get much more evolution actually taught in science classes.

As for a specific idea for a new tactic to implement this strategy, I
offer the following suggestion:

In my view, just defending against creationists' attempts to inject
religion into science classes isn't enough.  It is necessary to do
this, of course, but I think it's also important to go on the
offensive and try to make people more aware of the nature of dogmatic
theology and its historical record, and thereby, hopefully, undermine
its appeal.  After all, underneath the guise of "Creation Science" or
"Intelligent Design Theory," it is essentially religious dogma that
these people are trying to inject into science classes, and because of
this, it is important that we should make every effort to educate
people as to the inherent dangers of taking this road.  One of the
most effective ways to do this, I believe, is for us to lobby in a
serious way to get the real history of religion taught in public
school history classes.  Not the kind of watered-down history we have
today, but the real thing--such as the theological justification for
the Inquisition and the witch-burnings, the theological rationale
behind the various religious wars, and everything.  Nowadays these
subjects are glossed-over and gutted in the same way that evolution
is, and so students fail to grasp the integral relationship between
dogmatic theology, religious intolerance and some of the darkest
chapters of human history.  Therefore, many come away with a distorted
view of history, much in the same way as many come away with a
distorted view of science because of the watering-down of evolution.

The facts speak for themselves.  If more people knew about them at a
younger age, perhaps there would be less fervor for injecting religion
into science classes.  Perhaps, faced with the prospect of their own
youth starting to learn about the darker side of religious dogma, the
creationists themselves might begin to see more clearly the risks of
their own strategy and might come, belatedly, to see the benefits of a
strict church/state separation.  But if not, at least it might give
them something new to worry about and might serve to divide and
disorganize them.  Even the fundamentalists, in spite of their current
dogmatic theology, take great pains to distance themselves from those
particular dogmatic theologies which led to the Inquisition and the
religious wars.  Dogmatic theists from different denominations might
be united now in their desire to maintain the status quo of
covering-up or whitewashing religious history in general, but once a
public discussion actually breaks out, all bets are off.  Their views
regarding what lessons should be learned from particular episodes in
religious history are all over the map.  Remember that it was largely
theological disputes which were behind much of the Medieval reign of
terror in the first place.  Heresy had to be crushed.  Therefore, they
might not all be on the same page today with regard to the particulars
of what to include in the proposed curriculum, and the particulars of
what to oppose.  And this could sow confusion and division in their
ranks.  There's no easier way to divide religious fanatics than to
remind them of the old issues that caused them to fight with each
other long ago.  Many of the same theological issues that divided them
then still divide them today.  And any proposed revision of the
history curricula would be full of such reminders.

Even if such a lobbying effort on our part fails to actually change
the curricula at first, I think that the ensuing public debate that
the effort could generate would be very healthy and could help break
the taboo about discussing such things in public; a taboo that the
creationists have used to their advantage, by railing against
evolution with impunity, while remaining sheltered from the harsh
light of dogmatic religious history.  The lobbying effort would also
have the beneficial side-effect of furthering the education of those
who choose to participate in it with respect to the history of
religion and the dangers of dogmatic fanaticism, and thereby would
make them better advocates for science and genuine historical
scholarship.  And besides this, the publicity that might be generated
by all this is much more likely to hurt the public image of the
dogmatic theists and help that of the pro-science folks than the
reverse, given the facts of religious history.  And in the end, it is
public opinion that matters most to the politicians who decide what is
to be taught in public schools.  If this can be shifted away from
protecting the sensitivities of dogmatic theists, from not rocking the
boat, and towards actually educating students, it will be a major
accomplishment.

I know that this approach might seem rather risky at first glance, and
might be perceived by some as an attack on religion itself.  I'm sure
that many of the dogmatic theists would like to portray it in this
way.  But if we avoid religion-bashing as a matter of principle and
stick to the facts as understood by professional historians, and stick
to the general view of religion as understood by cultural
anthropologists, I think we would be on pretty solid ground, as far as
mainstream, educated public opinion is concerned.  After all, it's not
religion itself which is the enemy of science, just that type of
dogmatic theology that cannot tolerate any compromise with the modern
world.  I believe that many moderate religious folks would also agree
that dogmatic theology is their enemy as well, and many might join us
in the effort to improve the history curricula if we take the lead on
this.  Especially in view of the fact that many moderate religious
folks of the past, along with scientists, rationalists and others,
played a significant role in ending the reign of terror which dogmatic
theists imposed on Western Christendom for all those centuries.  There
are plenty of heroes to go around, as well as plenty of villains.
History is funny that way.

To sum up then:

It is my view that the watering-down or glossing-over of evolution and
the censorship of religious history in public schools are both due to
political pressure by dogmatic theists.  I think it's time that we see
both issues as being linked and act accordingly.  I believe the
dogmatic theists already do.

The status quo is unacceptable.  To change it, I think we need to be
willing to consider new ideas.  In order to consider new ideas, they
must first be spread around.  If you've found this one worth
considering, please spread it around to whom it may concern.

Thanks,

Paul Hanley
