Hello Mr. Morse,

This is in response to your recent article "Boycotting the Pledge of Allegiance" on NewsMax.com.

First, I fail to see how one person's refusal to recite the Pledge of Allegiance, with its religious invocation, is somehow going to affect our men and women who are fighting in Iraq.  Perhaps it would be wiser for Americans to pledge to our Constitution, which has actual guarantees for our freedoms, including freedom of and from religion.

Second, you stated that Soviet Russia, Nazi Germany, and Cuba were/are atheist/humanist nations.  None of these nations espouse(d) Humanist values, and were/are completely antithetical to the tenets of Humanism.  A little research on your part would have shown this.

Humanist values declare that humans are most important.  We humans have the power, thru reason, science, courage, and vision, to solve our problems; we shape our destiny.  We are each capable of personal development and satisfaction.  Humanism holds as its highest goal the happiness, fulfillment, and freedom of all humankind.  Most Atheists in the U.S. are also Humanists.

The Soviet Union, Nazi Germany and Cuba obviously did/do not follow such concepts.

The Soviet Union (and Cuba now) was officially atheistic, because Stalin saw religion as another power structure that could oppose him.  Hitler and Nazi Germany were definitely not Atheistic, and often linked their actions to God and Christianity.  A little research will show this.  One good site that I've found on this subject is "The religious views of Adolf Hitler" at http://www.freethought-web.org/ctrl/quotes_hitler.html  It gives quotes from "Mein Kampf" and from speeches that Hitler made.  It is a popular Christian myth that Hitler was an Atheist, but his own words contradict this idea.  Here are a few from the site:

 “I am now as before a Catholic and will always remain so.”
 -- "Adolf Hitler" by John Toland

 “Hence today I believe that I am acting in accordance with the will of the Almighty Creator:
  by defending myself against the Jew, I am fighting for the work of the Lord.”
 -- "Mein Kampf" by Adolf Hitler

 “Thus inwardly armed with confidence in God and the unshakable stupidity of the voting citizenry,
 the politicians can begin the fight for the ‘remaking’ of the Reich as they call it.”
 -- "Mein Kampf" by Adolf Hitler


One could argue that Hitler was not a "true" Christian, in that only true Christians will follow what people typically think Christ taught.  This would mean that many former Christian leaders (including Martin Luther and many popes) would have to be retroactively removed as Christians.

Also, not all of the teachings attributed to Christ were so loving or caring:

 “Do not suppose that I have come to bring peace to the earth.  I did not come to bring
 peace, but a sword.”
 -- Matthew 10:34

 “If anyone comes to me and does not hate his father and mother, his wife and children,
 his brothers and sisters -- yes, even his own life -- he cannot be my disciple.”
 -- Luke 14:26

 "I have come to bring fire on the earth, and how I wish it were already kindled!"
 -- Luke 12:49


It is a lie that Hitler and Nazi Germany were Atheistic or Humanistic.  It is also a lie that the Soviet Union or Cuba was/is Humanistic.


Third, there is the issue of the electoral results in Florida.  There is substantial evidence that the Republican party engaged in significant actions in preventing many legal voters (largely black or poor) from exercising their right to vote.  Based on this, it can be claimed that the Republican party stole the election.  An excellent book that documents this is "The Best Democracy Money Can Buy" by Greg Palast.


Are you going to publicly correct your statements?

Sincerely,
Mark W. Thomas

