Did You Know

Drinking two glasses of Gatorade can relieve headache pain almost
immediately-without the unpleasant side effects caused by 
traditional pain relievers.

Did you know that Colgate toothpaste makes an excellent salve for 
burns.

Before you head to he drugstore for a high-priced inhaler filled 
with mysterious chemicals, try chewing on a couple of curiously 
strong Altoids peppermints. They'll clear up your stuffed nose.

Achy muscles from a bout of the flu? Mix 1 Tablespoon of 
horseradish in 1/2 cup of olive oil. Let the mixture sit for 30 
minutes,then apply it as a massage oil, for instant relief for 
aching muscles.

Sore Throat?? Just mix 1/4 cup of vinegar with 1/4 cup of honey 
and take 1 Tablespoon six times a day. The vinegar kills the 
bacteria.

Cure urinary tract infections with alka-seltzer. Just dissolve two
tablets in a glass of water and drink it at the onset of the 
symptoms. Alka-Seltzer begins eliminating urinary tract 
infections almost instantly-even though the product was never 
been advertised for this use.

Eliminate puffiness under your eyes.....All you need is a dab of
preparation H, carefully rubbed into the skin, avoiding the eyes. 
The hemorrhoid ointment acts as a vasoconstrictor, relieving the 
swelling instantly.

Honey remedy for Skin Blemishes......Cover the blemish with a dab 
of honey and place a band-aid over it. Honey kills the bacteria, 
keeps the skin sterile, and speeds healing. Works overnight.

Listerine therapy for toenail fungus....Get rid of unsightly 
toenail fungus by soaking your toes in Listerine mouthwash. The 
powerful antiseptic leaves your toenails looking healthy again.

Easy eyeglass protection....To prevent the screws in eyeglasses 
from loosening, apply a small drop of Maybelline Crystal Clear 
nail polish to the threads of the screws before tightening them.

Coca-Cola cure for rust...Forget those expensive rust removers. 
Just saturate an abrasive sponge with Coca Cola and scrub the 
rust stain. The phosphoric acid in the coke is what gets the job 
done.

Cleaning liquid that doubles as bug killer....If menacing bees, 
wasps, hornets, or yellow jackets get in your home and you can't 
find the insecticide, try a spray of Formula 409. Insects drop to 
the ground instantly.

Smart splinter remover.....just pour a drop of Elmers Glue-all 
over the splinter, let dry, and peel the dried glue off the skin. 
The splinter sticks to the dried glue.

Hunt's tomato paste boil cure....Cover the boil with Hunt's 
tomato paste as a compress. The acids from the tomatoes soothe 
the pain and bring the boil to a head.

Balm for broken blisters.....To disinfect a broken blister, dab 
on a few drops of Listerine....a powerful antiseptic.

Heinz vinegar to heal bruises...Soak a cotton ball in white 
vinegar and apply it to the bruise for 1 hour. The vinegar 
reduces the blueness and speeds up the healing process.

Kills fleas instantly. Dawn dishwashing liquid does the trick. 
Add a few drops to your dog's bath and shampoo the animal 
thoroughly. Rinse well to avoid skin irritations. Goodbye fleas

Rainy day cure for dog odor....Next time your dog comes in from 
the rain, simply wipe down the animal with Bounce or any dryer 
sheet, instantly making your dog smell springtime fresh.

Eliminate ear mites....All it takes is a few drops of wesson corn 
oil in your cat's ear. Massage it in, then clean with a cotton 
ball. Repeat daily for 3 days. The oil soothes the cat's skin, 
smothers the mites, and accelerates healing.

Vaseline cure for hairballs.....To prevent troublesome hairballs, 
apply a dollop of vaseline petroleum jelly to your cat's nose. 
The cat will lick off the jelly, lubricating any hair in its 
stomach so it can pass easily through the digestive system.

Quaker Oats for fast pain relief....It's not for breakfast 
anymore! Mix 2 cups of Quaker Oats and 1 cup of water in a bowl 
and warm in the microwave for 1 minute, cool slightly, and apply 
the mixture to your hands for soothing relief from arthritis pain.
