In defense of nonbelief
My View: reader commentary

By KEN MORTON
In responding to Willis Elliott's Dec. 26 column, "Dangerous illusions about religion," I won't attempt to address all of his untruths, half-truths and non sequiturs, but I will try to make a few general points about religious faith and nonbelief.

I acknowledge that people's religious faith can have a beneficial effect on their lives and the lives of others. A person's faith can be a source of comfort, meaning, altruism and inspiration, and in these respects religion can and does serve a useful purpose in society. I am not against religion per se, and I believe our freedom of religion and freedom from state-mandated religion are among the things that make our nation and Western civilization great.

However, I am a critical naturalist, and I do not believe in any gods or supernatural beings. This stance makes me an atheist - someone who lacks a belief in the positive claims of theists (believers). An atheist may be indifferent to religion, hostile toward religion, or an adherent of a nontheistic religion, such as a form of Buddhism.

The simplest way to understand atheism is this: Most faithful believe in one particular god and are nonbelievers - atheistic - toward the gods of every other faith. I believe in one less god than a Christian, Jew or Muslim. I feel the same way about the biblical "God" as most Christians feel about the "Zeus" character in Homer - it is the deity of somebody else's belief system. In my view, I no more need to prove the nonexistence of God than I need prove the nonexistence of Zeus. The burden of proof is always on the side making the claim, and I am just withholding belief in the absence of any compelling reason to believe.

While some atheists may claim to "know" there is no god, knowledge is not necessary for atheism any more than knowledge is a requirement of religious faith. In fact, I am an agnostic atheist: I do not know there are no gods, but I do not believe there are. Most theists, actually, are agnostic theists: They would not claim to know there is a god (because faith is sufficient), but they believe there is.

I do not worship anything - not money, not another person, not an abstract ideal, and not myself. I think the whole concept of worship is demeaning regardless of the object of worship. Why should anybody worship anything?

Religion is one of the main factors in civilization that inhibits freedom and progress, mainly by discouraging the free exercise of our ability to think and reason. Heresy, sacrilege and blasphemy are religious concepts intended to discourage and punish dissent from orthodoxy. In my view, of course, blasphemy is a victimless crime.

Painstakingly acquired scientific knowledge is in no way equivalent to faith-based religion. Faith is not a "way of knowing" - it's called "faith" because it is not about knowledge. Science is not based on faith; the scientific method is a proven way of acquiring knowledge about the way the universe works. The benefits of science are reaped by all of us in the form of medicine, technology and higher standards of living. Religion has never invented anything, and even now we see faith-based policy preventing us from conducting embryonic stem-cell research of enormous potential.

Those who defend religion usually do so from the point of view of their own particular faith. I cannot overstate the irony of Mr. Elliott's defense of Christianity, despite its incredibly bloody history, while attacking Islam for its bloody history. From my vantage point, defenses of Christianity ring just as hollow as defenses of Islam.

The United States may or may not be a Christian nation, but the important point is that our Founding Fathers, whose beliefs ranged from puritanical Christianity to atheism, were wise enough to appreciate the importance of separation of church and state. I am proud to live in a nation where I can voice these opinions. I am proud to live in a country where all citizens are free to follow their own conscience and to believe what they will without fear.

Ken Morton lives in Barnstable Village and is writing a philosophy book. He can be reached at kmorton@attbi.com.
