Hi Lynn,

As always, you are welcome at our meetings.

We had discussed the possibility of a few of us from our group meeting with people from your church.  Is this still viable?

Those sections of the state constitutions are unconstitutional, under the Federal Constitution, per Amendments I and XIV.

Also, just because God is mentioned in a state constitution (or anywhere) does not mean that he actually exists.  There have been over 2500 gods.  How do we know which is the true god?  Even assuming that one God does exist, what do we use as a true source of his words?  The Christian bible has been shown to have many contradictions, both internally and with our laws and social norms.  Revelation is only true for those who receive it; for all others it is hearsay.

For some of the bible contradictions, see:
http://www.godlessgeeks.com/LINKS/BibleQuotes.htm 

There are thousands of religions, including a large number of Christian sects.  Each of them is supposedly true to their believers.  How can a person objectively decide which one is really correct?

Take care,
Mark

-----

U.S. Constitution
Article. VI. Clause 3: ... no religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office 
or public Trust under the United States. 

AMENDMENT I
Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; 

The Treaty of Tripoli
"The Government of the United States is not in any sense founded on the Christian religion."
-- written during the administration of President George Washington,
    signed by President John Adams and unanimously approved by the Senate in 1797.


"A tyrant must put on the appearance of uncommon devotion to religion.  Subjects are less apprehensive of illegal treatment from a ruler whom they consider god-fearing and pious.  On the other hand, they do less easily move against him, believing that he has the gods on his side.
 -- Aristotle (ca. 384-322 B.C.E.) Greek philosopher
    Politics, from James A. Haught, ed., 2000 Years of Disbelief

"Can anyone look at the carnage in Iran, the bloodshed in Northern Ireland, or the bombs bursting in Lebanon and yet question the dangers of injecting religious issues into the affairs of state?"
-- Barry Goldwater, "Mr. Conservative"

"The purpose of separation of church and state is to keep forever from these shores the ceaseless strife that has soaked the soil of Europe in blood for centuries."
-- James Madison, in a letter objecting to the use of government land for churches, 1803

"History furnishes no example of a priest-ridden people maintaining a free civil government.  This marks the lowest grade of ignorance, of which their political as well as religious leaders will always avail themselves for their own purposes."
-- Thomas Jefferson, 1813

"It is error alone that needs the support of government.  Truth can stand by itself."
-- Thomas Jefferson

"The clergy, by getting themselves established by law and ingrafted into the machine of government, have been a very formidable engine against the civil and religious rights of man."
-- Thomas Jefferson to Jeremiah Moor, 1800.

"[T]he Court has unambiguously concluded that the individual freedom of conscience protected
 by the First Amendment embraces the right to select any religious faith or none at all.
 This conclusion derives support . . . from recognition of the fact that the political interest
 in forestalling intolerance extends beyond intolerance among Christian sects — or even intolerance
 among 'religions' — to encompass intolerance of the disbeliever and the uncertain." 
 -- Wallace v. Jaffree, 472 U.S. 38 (June 4, 1985) at 52-54

"The mixing of government and religion can be a threat to free 
government, even if no one is forced to participate.... When the 
government puts its imprimatur on a particular religion, it conveys a 
message of exclusion to all those who do not adhere to the favored 
beliefs. A government cannot be premised on the belief that all 
persons are created equal when it asserts that God prefers some."
-- Harry Andrew Blackmun (1908-1999) Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court 
   (1970-1994)
   Majority Opinion, Lee v. Weisman, 1992

"The day that this country ceases to be free for irreligion it will 
cease to be free for religion -- except for the sect that can win 
political power."
 -- Robert H. Jackson (1892-1954) Associate Justice, U.S. Supreme Court (1941-1954)
    dissenting opinion, Zorach v. Clauson, (April 28, 1952)


"Those who get instructions directly from the Almighty are twice blessed:
They get their orders from the Highest Authority, and the orders are always
to do what they would have done anyway."
 --  Harley Sorensen, SF Gate


=====


----Original Message Follows----
From: Lynn M Hofland <stiffneck@juno.com>
To: m_w_thomas@hotmail.com
Subject: State Constitutions
Date: Tue, 9 Mar 2004 17:36:17 -0800

Mark,

Sorry that I have not been to any meetings lately, I will keep in touch.
Here is something for you to look over.

Lynn

"Those people who will not be governed by God will be ruled by tyrants."
William Penn

Alabama 1901, Preamble. We the people of the State of Alabama, invoking
the favor and guidance of Almighty God, do ordain and establish the
following Constitution.
Alaska 1956, Preamble. We, the people of Alaska, grateful to God and to
those who founded our nation and pioneered this great land...
Arizona 1911, Preamble. We, the people of the State of Arizona, grateful
to Almighty God for our liberties, do ordain this Constitution...
Arkansas 1874, Preamble. We, the people of the State of Arkansas,
grateful to Almighty God for the privilege of choosing our own form of
government...
California 1879, Preamble. We, the People of the State of California,
grateful to Almighty God for our freedom...
Colorado 1876, Preamble. We, the people of Colorado, with profound
reverence for the Supreme Ruler of Universe...
Connecticut 1818, Preamble. The People of Connecticut, acknowledging with
gratitude the good Providence of God in permitting them to enjoy...
Delaware 1897, Preamble. Through Divine Goodness all men have, by nature,
the rights of worshiping and serving their Creator according to the
dictates of their consciences ...
Florida 1885, Preamble. We, the people of the State of Florida, grateful
to Almighty God for our constitutional liberty, establish this
Constitution...
Georgia 1777, Preamble. We, the people of Georgia, relying upon
protection and guidance of Almighty God, do ordain and establish this
Constitution...
Hawaii 1959, Preamble. We, the people of Hawaii, Grateful for Divine
Guidance ... establish this Constitution.
Idaho 1889, Preamble. We, the people of the State of Idaho, grateful to
Almighty God for our freedom, to secure its blessings...
Illinois 1870, Preamble. We, the people of the State of Illinois,
grateful to Almighty God for the civil, political and religious liberty
which He hath so long permitted us to enjoy and looking to Him for a
blessing on our endeavors.
Indiana 1851, Preamble. We, the People of the State of Indiana, grateful
to Almighty God for the free exercise of the right to choose our form of
government.
Iowa 1857, Preamble. We, the People of the State of Iowa, grateful to the
Supreme Being for the blessings hitherto enjoyed, and feeling our
dependence on Him for a continuation of these blessings to establish this
Constitution
Kansas 1859, Preamble. We, the people of Kansas, grateful to Almighty God
for our civil and religious privileges, establish this Constitution.
Kentucky 1891, Preamble. We, the people of the Commonwealth of grateful
to Almighty God for the civil, political and religious liberties...
Louisiana 1921, Preamble. We, the people of the State of Louisiana,
grateful to Almighty God for the civil, political and religious liberties
we enjoy.
Maine 1820, Preamble. We the People of Maine, acknowledging with grateful
hearts the goodness of the Sovereign Ruler of the Universe in affording
us an opportunity ... and imploring His aid and direction.
Maryland 1776, Preamble. We, the people of the state of Maryland,
grateful to Almighty God or our civil and religious liberty...
Massachusetts 1780, Preamble. We...the people of Massachusetts,
acknowledging with grateful hearts, the goodness of the Great Legislator
of the Universe ... in the course of His Providence, an opportunity
...and devoutly imploring His direction .
Michigan 1908, Preamble. We, the people of the State of Michigan,
grateful to Almighty God for the blessings of freedom ... establish this
Constitution.
Minnesota, 1857, Preamble. We, the people of the State of Minnesota,
grateful to God for our civil and religious liberty, and desiring to
perpetuate its blessings...
Mississippi 1890, Preamble. We, the people of Mississippi in convention
assembled, grateful to Almighty God, and invoking His blessing on our
work.
Missouri 1845, Preamble. We, the people of Missouri, with profound
reverence for the Supreme Ruler of the Universe, and grateful for His
goodness ... establish this Constitution ...
Montana 1889, Preamble. We, the people of Montana, grateful to Almighty
God for the blessings of liberty. establish this Constitution
Nebraska 1875, Preamble. We, the people, grateful to Almighty God for our
freedom ... establish this Constitution.
Nevada 1864, Preamble. We the people of the State of Nevada, grateful to
Almighty God for our freedom establish this Constitution...
New Hampshire 1792, Part I. Art. I. Sec. V. Every individual has a
natural and unalienable right to worship God according to the dictates of
his own conscience.
New Jersey 1844, Preamble. We, the people of the State of New Jersey,
grateful to Almighty God for civil and religious liberty which He hath so
long permitted us to enjoy, and looking to Him for a blessing on our
endeavors .
New Mexico 1911, Preamble. We, the People of New Mexico, grateful to
Almighty God for the blessings of liberty.
New York 1846, Preamble. We, the people of the State of New York,
grateful to Almighty God for our freedom, in order to secure its
blessings.
North Carolina 1868, Preamble. We the people of the State of North
Carolina, grateful to Almighty God, the Sovereign Ruler of Nations, for
our civil, political, and religious liberties, and acknowledging our
dependence upon Him for the continuance of those .
North Dakota 1889, Preamble. We, the people of North Dakota, grateful to
Almighty God for the blessings of civil and religious liberty, do
ordain...
Ohio 1852, Preamble. We the people of the state of Ohio, grateful to
Almighty God for our freedom, to secure its blessings and to promote our
common ..
Oklahoma 1907, Preamble. Invoking the guidance of Almighty God, in order
to secure and perpetuate the blessings of liberty ... establish this...
Oregon 1857, Bill of Rights, Article I. Section 2. All men shall be
secure in the Natural right, to worship Almighty God according to the
dictates of their consciences..
Pennsylvania 1776, Preamble. We, the people of Pennsylvania, grateful to
Almighty God for the blessings of civil and religious liberty, and humbly
invoking His guidance...
Rhode Island 1842, Preamble. We the People of the State of Rhode Island
grateful to Almighty God for the civil and religious liberty which He
hath so long permitted us to enjoy, and looking to Him for a blessing
South Carolina, 1778, Preamble. We, the people of he State of South
Carolina. grateful to God for our liberties, do ordain and establish this
Constitution.
South Dakota 1889, Preamble. We, the people of South Dakota, grateful to
Almighty God for our civil! and religious liberties ... establish
this....
Tennessee 1796, Art. XI.III. That all men have a natural and indefensible
right to worship Almighty God according to the dictates of their
conscience...
Texas 1845, Preamble. We the People of the Republic of Texas,
acknowledging, with gratitude, the grace and beneficence of God.
Utah 1896, Preamble. Grateful to Almighty God for life and liberty, we
establish this Constitution...
Vermont 1777, Preamble. Whereas all government ought to ... enable the
individuals who compose it to enjoy their natural rights, and other
blessings which the Author of Existence has bestowed on man...
Virginia 1776, Bill of Rights, XVI ... Religion, or the Duty which we owe
our Creator ... can be directed only by Reason ... and that it is the
mutual duty of all to practice Christian Forbearance, Love and Charity
towards each other...
Washington 1889, Preamble. We the People of the State of Washington,
grateful to the Supreme Ruler of the Universe for our liberties, do
ordain this Constitution ...
West Virginia 1872, Preamble. Since through Divine Providence we enjoy
the blessings of civil, political and religious liberty, we, the people
of West Virginia, reaffirm our faith in and constant reliance upon God.
Wisconsin 1848, Preamble. We, the people of Wisconsin, grateful to
Almighty God for our freedom, domestic tranquility ...
Wyoming 1890, Preamble. We, the people of the State of Wyoming, grateful
to God for our civil, political, and religious liberties ... establish
this Constitution.
