Proposals: 9 great places to pop the question  

 
When it comes to proposing, does it really make a difference where you drop to bended knee? You bet your 2-carat sparkler it does. "A sentimental, exotic, or unexpected backdrop will send your romantic proposal off the charts and add an extra layer of meaning and memory," says Carley Roney, editor in chief of The Knot. You could return to the "scene of the crime" and propose at the spot you two first met or kissed, or you might choose to consider the world your stage. Here are some of the planet's best places for sealing the deal. 

WAILUA FALLS
Kauai, Hawaii
Want to make your fantasy come true? Go to the source: This picturesque pair of 80-foot-tall water falls -- Wailua means "two waters" -- on Hawaii's "Garden Isle" of Kaua'i, once starred in the opening sequence of the '70s television show "Fantasy Island". Propose "at the scenic overlook or navigate the steep path down to its pool to frolic Blue Lagoon-style in the cool mountain water and whisper your words of love." (You know what we mean... the proposal! the proposal!) 

HARRY'S BAR
Venice, Italy
Once the haunt of luminaries such as Ernest Hemingway, Charlie Chaplin, and Truman Capote, "this intimate bar near the Piazza San Marco and Grand Canal in Venice is pure romance." Pull your bar stools close as you sip signature Bellinis, a bubbly marriage of peach juice and champagne, then "follow up with a gondola ride along Venice's labyrinth canals." 

BROOKLYN BRIDGE
New York City
"This bridge cuts a classic New York silhouette." Whether you're strolling along its boardwalk or gazing up from a pier or promenade on the Brooklyn side, the marriage of its majestic heft, the twinkling Manhattan skyline, and languid East River will make you swoon. "Celebrate with a sunset-lit glass of champagne nearby at the upscale River Café (and nuzzle in its courtyard garden) or dig in to a coal-oven pie -- pizza, that is -- at Grimaldi's, a New York institution and Sinatra shrine just down the street." 

PARIS, FRANCE
(Anywhere!)
And you thought the "City of Light" had no more tricks up its sleeve. "It's true, this chic city is bedraggled by cliches, but cozy nooks and crannies are its trump card, forever saving it from static stereotype." Tease your beloved by visiting all the standard pop-the-question spots -- the Eiffel Tower, the steps of Montmartre, and Luxembourg Gardens. But surprise her with that piece de resistance rock when the spirit moves you -- along a romantic lamp-lit backstreet, at the tip of Ile-St. Louis, or in the lovely Place des Vosges, the oldest square in Paris. 

GOLIATH ROLLER COASTER
Six Flags Magic Mountain, Valencia, California
Propose the plunge -- then take it! -- at 85 miles an hour on the second tallest and fastest roller coaster in the world. "This coaster is perfect, because it's open year-round and has a nice, slow 255-foot-high anticipation-building ascent so that you have time to recount all the things you love about your intended before you pop the question at its crest." Why propose on a roller coaster? "It's a full-body rush if the answer is yes. And they'll be secured by restraints if the answer is no!" 

INSPIRATION POINT
Grand Teton National Park, Wyoming
"Few things inspire bold proclamations and weak-kneed romance better than an awesome view." It doesn't get much more inspiring than Ansel Adams territory in Grand Teton National Park. Catch the boat across Jenny Lake and take the Cascade Canyon Trail. You'll pass Hidden Falls on your way to Inspiration Point, about three-quarters of a mile in, from which you can see Grand Teton (the park's highest peak), Mt. Owen, and an IMAX-esque view of Cascade Canyon. "Celebrate with a cozy six-course dinner at Jenny Lake Lodge." (Note: Reservations are required.) 

TOP OF THE WORLD RESTAURANT
Stratosphere, Las Vegas
You literally will feel like you're walking on clouds at the revolving Top of the World Restaurant on the 106th floor of the Stratosphere in Las Vegas, 850 feet above the "Wedding Capitol of the World". Below you, "Las Vegas sparkles with possibilities and mountain ranges fringe your view." Bonus activities: The 160-foot-tall Big Shot freefall ride ("dresses not recommended") and High Roller roller coaster, both above the restaurant. "Toast your decision with a two-foot-tall Stratoblaster glass filled with champagne at the casino downstairs, then tie the knot at one of the wedding chapels across the street! 

JEFFERSON MEMORIAL
Washington, D.C.
Who better to inspire your declaration of love than the author of the Declaration of Independence, Thomas Jefferson? The classical white-marble memorial in West Potomac Park is "a quiet haven on the water, the perfect spot for uttering serious words of undying devotion." To sweeten the deal, go at the end of March or in early April when the cherry blossoms are in full bloom. 

LOVE SCULPTURE
Indianapolis Museum of Art
You've seen the stamp, now see the original sculpture. Set on the front lawn of the Indianapolis Museum of Art, this iconic steel sculpture by Robert Indiana is composed of the letters that spell the word "LOVE" stacked on each other. "Originally inspired by the saying 'God is Love', the sculpture is near a lovely fountain and nestled against the forest. It's a great spot to say your piece or start a meandering proposal that ends along the paths lacing the museum's gardens." 

