Hello Lori,

Thank you for pointing out all these ideas about the loving Christian God.  I guess that I just had not thought of them before.

Here is a reality update.  Atheists have had these ideas before, and rejected them because they don't fit with the world around us, and thus don't make sense.

You say prayer caused your "Christian" friends daughter's tumor to be benign.  That's nice.  What would you say to another Christian who lost a loved one?  It does happen, you know.  Would you say that it wasn't part of God's plan?  Would you say that they didn't pray hard enough?  Would you say that God works in mysterious ways?

I was raised as a Methodist, and most of the people in our group were also raised in religious families.  Eventually we got tired of the fairy tales, and started to realize that almost all religion is the biggest lie on the planet.  It makes no rational sense, and there is no empirical evidence for it.

However, people go on believing for many reasons.  The biggest one, I think, is that it gives them a sense of order and comfort.  It doesn't make God real any more than the fact that alcohol makes a drunk happy.

Maybe someday you'll grow up psychologically, take responsibility for yourself, and throw off your chains of superstition.

The bad news is that there is no god to take care of us.

The good news is that we can love each other (and also that there is no hell).

If you want to learn, we've got articles and a lot of links to other sites on our site: www.godlessgeeks.com

I have found that Atheists can be some of the greatest, most truly caring and loving people around.  We started our group so that we could meet more Atheists, and enjoy our lives better.  It's been great.

Take care,
Mark



>From: Lori Valdez <rlvaldez@pacbell.net>
>To: mark@godlessgeeks.com
>Subject: website
>Date: Wed, 02 Oct 2002 18:20:33 -0700
>
>The fact that you have a website to encourage people to become a member or be included in your group tells me you feel "small" and out-numbered - am I right?  Why do you think that is?  I can tell you that I was agnostic for many years and basically this was to keep my Christian friends from bugging me to "convert".  I used to say I am a realist and if you can "show" me God I will believe in him.  This worked for may years, then I married a Christian man.
>
>But I can tell you that now I see the power of "seeing God" in all the miracles that happen to me and my family on a daily basis.  Yes, you could say it is just luck that we earn more than we ever have now that we tithe every payday or just luck that our "Christian" friends daughter's tumor turned out to be benign, but I will tell you it is prayer.
>
>You have a right to believe in whatever you choose to believe, but I sure hope you're right when it's time for one of your children (when you have them) to go be with God or burn in hell for eternity.