The scientific method IS open to new ideas; and it is also often difficult for a new idea to replace entrenched ideas.  However, if a new idea has the data to back it up, it will succeed.
 
The basic tenets of evolution are backed by an enormous wealth of data and correlating theories that help us understand the data.
 
The biggest problem with creationism and intelligent design is that there is no real data to back them.  The backers of these ideas (I'll call all of them creationists) simply say that there is something that we supposedly don't understand, therefore their god did it, and the reason behind that something is a mystery.  This is an intellectual cop-out.  It answers nothing; it predicts nothing, and it teaches nothing. If we say that God did it, there is no reason or opportunity to learn the physical properties of matter and energy.  If we had stayed with God as the cause of all events, our modern culture would have been impossible.  We would have no real science, engineering, or medicine; we would still be living in the dark ages.
 
Another problem with creationism and intelligent design is that they are not falsifiable.  What experiment could possibly show that God didn't do something?  No matter what happened, it could be said that God did it.
 
Behe and Dembski's claims of irreducible complexity fail, because they take the position that evolution had to take single paths towards goals.  They say that many things are too complex to have evolved.  As an analogy, something like a mousetrap could not have evolved because all the parts must work together, and it can't work without any individual part.  However, the parts could have evolved for different reasons, then come together for a greater effect.  For the mousetrap, the spring could be used as a tie clip.  It's not a good analogy, and it's not easy to explain.
 
Creationism is easy.  Science is often difficult and complex.  Creationists keep telling the same disproven ideas.  They seem to think that, if they tell it loud and often enough, people will believe them.  Scientists probably just get tired of it, and can understandably be strong in their dismissals of creationists.
 
I'm not too familiar with Postmodernism, but what I've read of it indicates that it is trying to restore religion to a higher intellectual level, and have science accommodate it.
 
There is plenty of critical discussion of Darwin's ideas.  His theories are continually being discussed and debated.  He had no direct knowledge of genes, although Mendel was doing that research at the time.  He thought that species changed slowly.  This is now being hotly debated, based on evidence.  It will probably turn out that some species have changed slowly, while many others have changed quickly at times - with long periods of little change in between.
 
As Carl Sagan said, extraordinary claims require extraordinary proof.  Creationism and intelligent design have no proof.
 
In reason,
Mark Thomas
