
       THE UNCENSORED TEN COMMANDMENTS, collected by John B. Hodges

The First Commandment: Exodus 20:2, Deuteronomy 5:6
I am Yahveh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out 
of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before me.

The First Penalty: 2 Chronicles 15:13 ...whoever would not seek 
Yahveh, the God of Israel, should be put to death, whether young or 
old, man or woman.
Exodus 22:20 Whoever sacrifices to any god, save to Yahveh 
only, shall be utterly destroyed.
Deuteronomy 13:6-9 If your brother, the son of your mother, 
or your daughter, or the wife of your bosom, or your friend who is as 
your own soul, entices you secretly, saying, 'let us go and serve 
other gods', ... you shall not yield to him or listen to him, nor 
shall your eye pity him, nor shall you spare him, nor shall you 
conceal him; but you shall kill him; your hand shall be first against 
him to put him to death, and afterwards the hand of all the people.

The Second Commandment: Exodus 20:4, Deuteronomy 5:8
You shall not make for yourself a graven image, or any likeness of 
anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or 
that is in the water under the earth; you shall not bow down to them 
or serve them, for I Yahveh your God am a jealous god, visiting the 
iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth 
generation of those who hate me, but showing steadfast love to 
thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments.

The Second Penalty: Exodus 32:27 Thus says Yahveh God of Israel, put 
every man his sword on his side, and go to and fro from gate to gate 
throughout the camp, and slay every man his brother, and every man 
his companion, and every man his neighbor. [Who broke the above 
commandment.]

The Third Commandment: Exodus 20:7, Deuteronomy 5:11
You shall not take the name of Yahveh your God in vain; for Yahveh 
will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain.

The Third Penalty: Leviticus 24:16 He who blasphemes the name of 
Yahveh shall be put to death; all of the congregation shall stone him.

The Fourth Commandment: Exodus 20:8, Deuteronomy 5:12
Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor, 
and do all your work; but the seventh day is a sabbath to Yahveh your 
God; in it you shall not do any work, you, or your son, or your 
daughter, or your male slave, or your female slave, or your 
livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates; for in six days 
Yahveh made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and 
rested the seventh day; therefore Yahveh blessed the seventh day and 
hallowed it.

The Fourth Penalty: Exodus 31:14-15 You shall keep the sabbath, 
because it is holy for you; every one who profanes it shall be put to 
death; whoever does any work on it, that soul shall be cut off from 
among his people. Six days shall work be done, but the seventh day is 
a sabbath of solemn rest, holy to Yahveh; whoever does any work on 
the sabbath day shall be put to death.
Exodus 35:2 Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh 
day you shall have a holy sabbath of solemn rest to Yahveh; whoever 
does any work on it shall be put to death; you shall kindle no fire 
in all your habitations on the sabbath day.

The Fifth Commandment: Exodus 20:12, Deuteronomy 5:16
Honor your father and mother, that your days may be long in the land 
which Yahveh your God gives you.

The Fifth Penalty: Leviticus 20:9 For every one who curses his father 
or his mother shall be put to death; he has cursed his father or his 
mother, his blood is upon him.
Matthew 15:4 For Yahveh commanded, "honor your father and 
your mother", and "He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him 
surely die."
Deuteronomy 21:18 If a man has a stubborn and rebellious son, 
who will not obey the voice of his father or the voice of his 
mother.... Then all the men of the city shall stone him to death with 
stones...
[Also relevant here is Proverbs 23:13-14.  Withhold not 
correction from the child: for if thou beatest him with the rod, he 
shall not die. Thou shalt beat him with the rod, and shalt deliver 
his soul from hell.]

The Sixth Commandment: Exodus 20:13, Deuteronomy 5:17
You shall not kill.

The Sixth Penalty: Exodus 21:12 Whoever strikes a man so that he dies 
shall be put to death.
Leviticus 24:17 He who kills a man shall be put to death.

The Seventh Commandment: Exodus 20:14, Deuteronomy 5:18
You shall not commit adultery.

The Seventh Penalty: Leviticus 20:10 If a man commit adultery with 
the wife of his neighbor, both the adulterer and the adulteress shall 
be put to death.
Deuteronomy 22:22 If a man is found lying with the wife of 
another man, both of them shall die, the man who lay with the woman, 
and the woman; so shall you purge the evil from Israel.
[Having multiple wives, or keeping concubines, or having sex with
prostitutes, is not adultery; adultery in the Bible consists of 
creating doubt about paternity, i.e. having sex with another man's wife.]

The remaining three Commandments have lesser penalties, but the 
original text is still worth reading.

The Eighth Commandment: Exodus 20:15, Deuteronomy 5:19
You shall not steal.

The Eighth Penalty: For stealing slaves, Exodus 21:16 Whoever steals 
a man, whether he sells him or is found in possession of him, shall 
be put to death.
For a thief caught in the act, Exodus 22:2 If a thief is found
breaking in, and is struck so that he dies, there shall be no 
bloodguilt for him; but if the sun has risen on him, there shall be 
bloodguilt for him.
For stealing most things other than slaves, penalties involve 
making restitution and paying fines. Exodus 22:1-3 If a man steals an 
ox or a sheep, and kills it or sells it, he shall pay five oxen for 
an ox, and four sheep for a sheep... If the stolen beast is found in 
his possession... he shall pay double. He shall make restitution; if 
he has nothing, then he shall be sold [into slavery] for his theft.

The Ninth Commandment: Exodus 20:16, Deuteronomy 5:20
You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor.

The Ninth Penalty: Prov. 19:9 A false witness shall not be 
unpunished, and he that speaketh lies shall perish.
This seems to be more of a rhetorical warning than a law, 
however. Some examples: 1 Kings 21, 2 Kings 5, those who testified 
falsely got off with only a curse on themselves and their descendants.

The Tenth Commandment: Exodus 20:17, Deuteronomy 5:21
You shall not covet your neighbor's house; you shall not covet your 
neighbor's wife, or his male slave, or his female slave, or his ox, 
or his ass, or anything that is your neighbor's.

There seems to be no particular penalty specified in the Bible for 
this, though there are dire warnings of doom for those who break any 
of the Commandments.
Deuteronomy 28:17-68 is a great rant, very much worth reading.

Matthew 5:17 Jesus says: Think not that I have come to abolish the 
law and the prophets; I have come not to abolish them but to fulfil 
them. For truly, I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, not 
an iota, not a dot, will pass from the law until all is accomplished. 
Whoever then relaxes one of the least of these commandments and 
teaches men so, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven; but 
he who does them and teaches them shall be called great in the 
kingdom of heaven. For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds 
that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom 
of heaven.