
Though the new Americans were religious and included prayer, Thanksgiving is
not based on anything religious. Just thanks for making it to the new land and
surviving the harsh conditions.

The Origin & History of Thanksgiving


Thanksgiving. The day America sets aside for family, for remembrance. It's a
day of Pilgrims, Native Americans, turkey and pumpkin pie.  But if it wasn't
for a persistent female magazine editor, we may not have the day to
celebrate today. It was Sarah Josepha Hale who really pushed hard for a
permanent national Thanksgiving celebration. But her involvement was far
down the road from the first Thanksgiving.

The first Thanksgiving celebration held in America occurred in 1619. On
December fourth of that year, thirty-eight English settlers arrived at the
Berkeley Plantation in Virginia. Part of their original charter stated that
they would set aside that day every year and observe it as a day of
Thanksgiving. Due to the hardships of those early times and various other
factors, the celebration turned out to be a short-lived occurrence.

The next recorded celebration is also the most famous. Plymouth,
Massachusetts, 1621. The first winter the Pilgrims had in the 'New World'
was a brutal one (nearly half of those who came over on the Mayflower died).
Times did eventually grow easier on them though, the following harvest
season was so bountiful in fact that the Pilgrims decided to hold a feast
for celebration and thanksgiving. This 'festival', which lasted three days,
included the participation of nearly one hundred Native Americans. Governor
William Bradford had invited the natives to show them appreciation, for
helping his colony survive through the harsh weather conditions.

The next 'thanksgiving' celebration did not occur until 1623. This year the
Pilgrims were again hit with a great natural hardship, a draught. In the
hope of bringing much needed rain, they gathered together in a prayer
service. The next morning it started to rain and it rained long and hard for
the next several days. When it became apparent that the crops (and the
colonists) would survive, Governor Bradford declared that they would hold
another day of thanksgiving (the Indians were again invited). As other
settlers came to the country, they held their own thanksgiving celebrations,
but each celebration was independent of the next.

In 1668 the Plymouth General Court tried to bring some order to the
celebration by declaring November 25th to be Thanksgiving. It was a
proclamation that only lasted within the colony for five years.

How Thanksgiving came to be held on a Thursday is not widely know. A very
logical belief is that the first Thanksgivings were held on Thursday (and in
some cases Wednesday) so as to not interfere with the Sabbath. During these
times, the Sabbath was an extremely important day; Saturday was a day of
preparation and Monday was out to give the Sabbath its proper respect so
with these 'restrictions' Thursday becomes an easy choice.

The first national celebration of Thanksgiving occurred in 1777. This
one-time only event occurred at this time also as a way to celebrate the
American defeat of the British at Saratoga.

The day worked its way on and off local calendars until 1789 when George
Washington made the first Presidential proclamation declaring Thanksgiving a
national event. The first Thanksgiving held under this proclamation occurred
on November 26 of that year. The pattern was set.

When he was named as the Second President of the United States, John Adams,
in an effort to be different, declared a day of Thanksgiving but moved it
from Thursday to the Wednesday previous. Finding it brought more resistance
than he felt it was worth, Adams relented and changed the day back.

When it was Thomas Jefferson's turn as President, he decided against the
idea of Thanksgiving. At this time, many were against the idea of taking a
day to honor the hard times of a few pilgrims. And so it went for nearly
sixty years, until Sarah Josepha Hale came to bat.

A magazine editor, Hale wrote strong editorials in many of the popular
magazines of the time (including Boston Ladies' Magazine and Godey's Lady's
Book), she also wrote letters to anyone and everyone (including Presidents,
Governors, Congress members and others) who might help her cause. She was
concerned with her belief that the country needed to set aside a day to give
thanks 'unto him from who all blessings flow'.

Finally she struck the right chord with Abraham Lincoln and in 1863, Hale
saw her dream realized as the President declared the last Thursday of
November as a national day of Thanksgiving.

 For the most part, it is a day that has stayed. In the 1930's President
Roosevelt tried to move the date a bit. He tried to slide it forward by a
week to extend the Christmas shopping season. Facing immense critical
outrage, he moved the day back with little fanfare. Later during Roosevelt's
administration, in 1941, Congress declared the fourth Thursday in November
to be the legal Holiday known as Thanksgiving.

It should be noted that while Thanksgiving has become a holiday deeply
associated with America, there have been numerous 'harvest', autumn, and
'thanksgiving' festivals throughout history including Grecian, Roman and
Egyptian celebrations.
