Hi Theres,

I am impressed by how excited you are about our website, and am glad that you're enjoying it.  I've put a lot of work into it and keeping the group alive.  It's not fancy, and it has a ton of links and articles.  We're currently getting almost 500 visiters per day.  The top page is http://www.godlessgeeks.com/LINKS/GodProof.htm with over 200 visitors per day.  My treatise on Atheism http://www.godlessgeeks.com/WhyAtheism.htm gets about 40 hits per day

The U.S. is not nearly as monolithic as you made it seem.  There are many of us who are very wary of the theocracy that Bush is creating, the lies that he has said, and the dangers to us, to the environment, and to the world that his policies are.  The Democrats and other liberals are highly motivated to have a regime change here in the next election.

godlessly,
Mark Thomas


----Original Message Follows----
From: "Theres Miller" <iat@hypnoseausbildung.ch>
To: <athofsv-owner@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: just a few compliments!
Date: Sun, 29 Feb 2004 11:25:01 +0100

Hello there from Switzerland...!

This is not to complain about a confirmation, quite the contrary - it's just
a great big WOW and a HEARTFELT THANK YOU for your great website - my son
just called me appr. 5 minutes ago and told me that he found you quite by
accident! Had we known, that there was such a GREAT website we would have
been the first ones to join it - that's for sure!

I am 61 years  O L D  ..., feeling  Y O U N G  like 22 however! Exactly at
that age I decided to chuck this entire religion thing and become a
convinced atheist! I left the church for good - and my husband - a Methodist
from Mississippi with his sister being a Baptist - whatever the difference
might be - joined me - as soon as we were married - 1,5 years later! (not
his sister though, she is still in church every Sunday^- and votes for Bush,
which is even worse... - well, at least for us over here!) You know with a
bit of distance in miles and years, you get to see many things American
quite differently than before, when you still live there.

You might aks: "Why did it take you until 22 years of age - well I do not
know, if you know just how brainwashed catholics are...?!!! I was born and
raised a Catholic - and at age 12 I even spent 3 years in a boarding school
run by nuns - of all people.

As the psychotherapist which I became years later, interestingly enough, I
got many of my former teachers in my practise as patients... It was hugely
eye-opening too!!!


(Of course I do not have the heart to tell them, that I had ages ago
"strayed" from the so called "path of righteousness..." - they would have
suffered a collective heart-attack! And after I had been their
psychotherapist and got to know, how and/or why they got to be nuns, I truly
felt sorry for almost all of them..., even those I had hated from the bottom
of my heart while in that nunnery-boarding-school!

One of them was "given to God" as a little present when she was only 16
(!!!) years young (should such a thing not be illegal???) and put into a
convent, so her parents could later go to heaven!

Another one became a nun, because she really had awful looking teeth and her
adoptive-parents could not afford to have them fixed - so she was convinced,
that she would never find a man with those teeth anyhow (they were not THAT
bad!)- but THAT's why she made us suffer - and was such a pain in the you
know where for all of her students!)


ALSO: my very own grandfather also wanted to buy "heaven" by trying to force
my father (his first-born) to become a priest (and his first-born girl a
nun - the girl did what she was told and the last thing I had heard from her
ages ago, that she was in Africa, preaching to the poor little children
there...) But my father left home as fast as his legs could carry him - and
built his own life without his father's money, thank goodness!

My mother on the other hand, had to change over from being a protestant to
becoming a catholic - in those times - just so she could marry my father
(because of the family concnerns...) - and SHE stayed hooked on that
religion until she died. Those converts are the WORST, honestly!


By the way: how courageous of YOU to run such a great website in "God's Own
Country" - the oh so very christian US of A... - especially since the oh so
hypocritical Bush and the horses he rode in on have used "religion" as
"Opium for the masses" - and how WELL it has worked, "heaven forbid"... But
there  seems to be a bit of hope through some of the Democrats, finally, so
we are starting to hope again - timidly - just a little!

By the way, we ARE Americany - but having lived in Europe (Switzerland)
since 1969... - but of course we have kept up with what's going on in our
home towns - (mine was N.Y. City) - especially politically too! And then,
since appr. 7 - 10 years now, every Sunday on several TV-channels, those
US-preachers are garbling even over here (on the BBC, and on all kinds of
private channels - about the bible and all the works - cashing in as they go
along like crazy! I am convinced,  that the entire garbage is all about
money for them anyway!

Please forgive me for this all too long story - I just want you to know, how
thrilled we are about your website - and I'd be glad to help in any way,
that I might be able to. Just let me know, if you could know, that, if
anythng we could do for you too!!!

Just so you know: if you ever come to Switzerland - tiny country which has
everything (truly), except our own ocean...! We make great tour-guides and
our son and his wife are the geatest hobby-cooks together - they will invite
you to a fantastic meal too!

In the meantime I am truly looking forward to get my first email-news from
you - and I can hardly wait! Let us know, if there is anything WE can do for
YOU, ok? We believe not only in taking, but also in giving back too! And
THIS has nothing whatsoever to do with religion either!


Many thank you's and lots of love from very far away - all the Miller's

Theresa and John plus Patrick and Ruth (our kids - they are in the process
of studying medicine)
Address:


IAT - Miller
P.O.Box 1003
(Dufourstr. 4)
9001 St.Gallen
Switzerland


Tel.: 0041 - 71 - 245 14 14 (from the USA!)
Fax.: 0041 - 71 - 244 14 11 (from the USA!)
iat@hypnoseausbildung.ch
www.hypnoseausbildung.ch


We run psycotherapeutic practises in Zurich and in St.Gallen plus
Training-Institutes for Psychotherapists - this weekend the latest group is
just sweating it out - filling in a huge questionnaire full of very
difficult questions to make sure, that they have been industrious enough to
be considered to receive our coveted Diplomas! They are now back in the
largest room supervised, trying to pass our "horrendous" testings - so that
they may - one day soon (after they have their dissertation approved of as
well - become Governement approved Therapists for Sophrology, Hypnotherapy,
Autogenic Training, Biofeedback, Suggestopedia, NLP - you name it - they
learn it - they are going to be great specialitsts as well - but if they do
not pass, they get another chance in appr. another year...


By the way: St.Gallen is a smallish city, which was founded in the year 600
by a travelling monk named GALLUS - he then went on to Ireland - you get the
picture - wherever he trvelled he left Christianity behind...!

And it is also a town very quaint and lovely - it houses 2 great
Universities - and the center of the old city has some of the cutest houses
you'll have ever seen - plus with many very old and gorgeous buildings from
ages ago - the city is small and clean and very special. There is a library
here built on to the cathedral incredibly old - there I am talking religion
again - but I shall call it culture, ok? It is just amazing what those
people almost 2-thousand years ago were able to accomoplish alreadey!


Thank you again for your website, which will be a joy to behold for all of
us - I am hoping to find some of those jokes, Patrick told me about over the
phone - tehy were just TOO cute!

