SKEPTICS ON STEPHEN WOLFRAM AT CALTECH

Last Saturday, February 1, 2003, Dr. Stephen Wolfram, author of the
controversial book A New Kind of Science, spoke at Caltech to a packed
audience of over a thousand people, who came to see and hear the subject of
so much scientific press, as well as what three world-class scientists had to
say about it.

In an upcoming issue of Skeptic computer scientist David Naiditch will be
publishing a full review essay of Wolfram's book, but for now I post his
summary of the Caltech event, along with aerospace engineer Michael Gilmore's
impressions of the day.
-----------------------
A New Kind of Science?

David Naiditch

On February 1, physicist and computer scientist, Dr. Stephen Wolfram, spoke
to a full house at Caltech's Beckman Auditorium about his grandiose proposal 
for a new and improved kind of science. After Wolfram spoke for about an 
hour, he answered questions from a panel of distinguished scientists, and 
then responded to questions from the audience.

Stephen Wolfram was a child prodigy. He received his doctoral degree in
theoretical physics from Caltech when he was only 20, and was the youngest
scientist to receive a MacArthur award for his work in physics and computer
science. Wolfram made a fortune developing Mathematica--a powerful software
program that has become a standard for technical computing. Then, staring in
the early 1980s, he began working on cellular automata.

To understand cellular automata, imagine a grid of squares where each square
can either be black or white. From an initial state of a few black squares, a
simple rule is applied over and over again. This rule determines whether or
not a square changes its color, and is based on the color of the square's
nearest neighbors. For instance, a square might change from white to black
only if its nearest left neighbor is black and its right neighbor is white.
From such simple rules, intricate patterns can be generated, some of which
are highly symmetric like snowflakes, others that appear random, and others
that are self-similar fractals. Wolfram discovered that even the simplest
programs yield patterns of astonishing complexity.

In May 2002, Wolfram published his book, A New Kind of Science, which for the
first time revealed to the world the results of his research on cellar
automata and related fields. Wolfram's book was an immediate success and
caused a great deal of controversy. According to his publicist, the initial
print run of 50,000 copies sold out the first day, with over 200,000 copies
sold at the time of this writing. The book has been reviewed in most major
media venues (New York Times Book Review, New York Review of Books, Science,
Nature, etc.) and Wolfram has been featured in such national publications as
Time and Newsweek.

Wolfram proposed a new way of doing science. For hundreds of years,
scientists have successfully used mathematical equations that show how
various entities are connected. For instance, Newton's equation, F=ma,
shows us how force (F) is related to mass (m) and acceleration (a). The
problem with this approach is that equations fail to describe complex
phenomena we see all around us, such as the turbulence of boiling water or
the changing weather. To describe such complex phenomena, Wolfram proposes
that scientists employ the types of rules used in cellular automata and
related areas of computing.

In Wolfram's theory the universe is a giant computer. This computer produces
complexity through the repeated execution of simple rules. Instead of using
equations to describe the results of nature's computer programs, Wolfram
tells us to examine the programs themselves.

At the Caltech event Wolfram's ideas were challenged by a stellar panel of
scientists: Steven Koonin, Chris Adami, John Preskill, and David Stevenson.
Steven Koonin, the moderator, is a full professor of physics at Caltech and
received the Caltech Associated Students Teaching Award, the Humboldt Senior
Scientist Award, and the E.O. Lawrence Award in Physics from the Department
of Energy. Chris Adami is faculty associate and director of the Digital Life
Laboratory at Caltech, principle scientist in the Quantum Technologies Group
at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and author of the textbook Introduction to
Artificial Life. John Preskill is the John D. MacArthur Professor of
Theoretical Physics at Caltech and the director of the Institute for Quantum
Information. David Stevenson has been a physics professor at Caltech since
1980 and is the recipient of a Fellowship of the Royal Society of London and
the Feynman teaching prize.

Although it is clear that Wolfram is no crank, not someone skeptics would
label a pseudoscientist, skeptics will notice that, despite his flawless
credentials, staggering intelligence, and depth of knowledge, Wolfram
possesses many attributes of a pseudoscientist: (1) he makes grandiose
claims, (2) works in isolation, (3) did not go through the normal peer-review
process, (4) published his own book, (5) does not adequately acknowledge his
predecessors, and (6) rejects a well-established theory of at least one
famous scientist.

First, throughout his lecture Wolfram made the grandiose claim that his work
amounts to a "paradigm shift" of how we do science. Furthermore, Wolfram
claims his work will shed light on a broad range of fundamental issues that
have stymied scientists for ages, including the randomness found in nature,
biological complexity, the nature of space-time, the possibility of a "theory
of everything," and the scope and limitations of mathematics. Wolfram even
claims his insights can be used to tackle the ancient paradoxes of free will
and determinism, and the nature of intelligence.

Second, like so many pseudoscientists on the fringe, Wolfram did his work in
isolation for 20 years. Although he was running a company that required he
interact with employees and customers (many of whom are scientists), his work
on cellular automata was kept largely to himself.

Third, Wolfram admitted that he had enough material during this time for
hundreds of scientific papers, yet he did not bother to publish any of the
material or present his ideas at any scientific conferences. Thus, any
critical feedback that might have improved his theory before it was cemented
in inky stone was eschewed, making change at this point in the development of
his theory much more unlikely.

Fourth, in May 2002 Wolfram revealed his work for the first time in his
massive self-published tome, A New Kind of Science, coming in at 1,268 pages.
This is not because he could not get a publisher, or that no publisher would
print such a large book. Readers may recall Stephen Jay Gould's magnum opus,
The Structure of Evolutionary Theory, was released about the same time by
Harvard University Press, topping out at 1,433 pages. Between the two,
bookstores shelves were sagging under the weight of Big Science. Wolfram
self-published because he wanted to maintain tight control over the
production and distribution of his life's work.

Fifth, not only did Wolfram work alone, during his Caltech lecture not once
did he acknowledge the work of other scientists. In addition, throughout the
850 pages of general text, and 350 pages of notes, there are no traditional
references to be found in A New Kind of Science: no references to scientific
papers, no citations of books related to the topic, and no bibliography. In
fact, the notes section consists mostly of further commentary on his own work
earlier in the book, with occasional reference to other scientists and
scholars without actually providing citations to their work. In actual fact,
many of Wolfram's ideas are not new. They can be found, for instance, in
James Gleick's popular book, Chaos: Making a New Science, and in Robert
Wright's book, Three Scientists and Their Gods, which describes the work of
Edward Fredkin. Fredkin, like Wolfram, believes that the universe is a
digital computer. What is new in A New Kind of Science is Wolfram's claim
that cellular automata, instead of being peripheral to science, should be
central to the way science is practiced.

Sixth, Wolfram raised the hackles of the scientific panel as well as the
audience when he rejected a well-established theory of a famous scientist:
none other than Charles Darwin and his theory of natural selection. Although
Wolfram does not claim natural selection is totally without merit, he does
claim it is insufficient to fully explain the complexity found in the 
biological world. For instance, he claims that natural selection can explain 
phenomena such the lengthening of bones, but not fundamental changes to an 
animal's morphology. Wolfram also claims that, contrary to popular belief, 
evolution is not very important to biologists.

Panel member Chris Adami, who researches how complexity arises from natural
selection, took exception to these claims. Adami pointed out that Darwinian
evolution in general, and natural selection in particular, is of fundamental
importance to biologists; without it, biology does not make sense. Adami also
argued that the kind of complexity biologists are most concerned with is
different from the kind of complexity presented by Wolfram. Wolfram tries to
explain complex patterns such as those found on seashells. According to
Adami, such complexity is based on our perception and our inability to
perceive the simple rules that can generate such patterns. In contrast,
biologists are concerned with functional complexity that arises as organisms
adapt to various environments, thereby increasing their chance of survival
and reproduction. Adami finds it inconceivable that the functional complexity
of, say, a living cell, is due to a simple underlying rule. John Preskill
also challenged Wolfram on this point, noting that cellular automata are very
fragile. Any "mutation" to cellular automata is disastrous. Biological 
systems, on the other hand, must be stable even when mutations and other 
errors are introduced.

In addition to these criticisms, other objections were raised to Wolfram's
ideas. Steven Koonin pointed out that a paradigm shift cannot arise simply by
asserting something is a paradigm shift. One must convince the scientific
community that this description is warranted. To the contrary, according to
David Stevenson, Wolfram fails to satisfy rules of what constitutes good
science. Creating programs that generate images that look like things found
in nature is not sufficient. One needs specific predictions. Wolfram does not
offer any laboratory experiments or observations that could verify or falsify
his grand claims.

Wolfram responded that the requirement of falsifiability does not apply to
mathematics or computer science. He argued that his claims have the character
of mathematics rather than physics, employing calculus as an analogy. Newton=
showed how calculus provides a new way of doing science. Calculus itself,
however, is not tested to determine whether it is true or false. Its
justification is that it works. The panel rebutted that if this analogy is
true, then Wolfram is just proposing a new kind of computational method, not
a new kind of science.

Objections were also raised that Wolfram's theory lacks explanatory power.
Not everything that is useful is explanatory. For example, David Stevenson
explained that Feynman diagrams are very useful and can provide answers to
problems of quantum mechanics much faster than answers obtained by
computational methods. However, Feynman diagrams do not provide an
explanation or deeper understanding of quantum phenomena. Again,
it was emphasized that Wolfram seems to be offering a new kind of
computational tool, not a new kind of science.

According to Wolfram, by generating patterns on the computer screen that
resemble, for instance, snowflakes, he has explained how snowflakes acquire
their complex symmetric structures. Panelists countered that such inferences
are unwarranted. The resemblance does not, by itself, mean nature uses rules
to generate snowflake patterns. Wolfram needs to demonstrate how nature
physically instantiates the rules of cellular automata. Evidence is needed to
show that the shape of snowflakes was produced by a physical mechanism whose
behavior resembles the rules used by a computer.

John Preskill observed that few of the ideas presented in Wolfram's book are
concrete enough to be usable by research scientists. Wolfram's answer that no
experts in his field yet exist, does not address the problem. For example,
Wolfram's most original ideas--such as the attempt to incorporate quantum
theory and gravity using random network models and path independence--are too
speculative to be of use to scientists.

At the end of the Caltech program the moderator, Steven Koonin, asked the
panelists to predict whether in 20 years Wolfram's A New Kind of Science will
be viewed as a paradigm shift. The unanimous answer was "no." One panelist
said, "it is not an approach that has much promise," while another noted
that Wolfram's ideas are the "Emperors New Clothes." Wolfram tried to get in
the last word by stating that this reaction from the panelists is just what
one would expect from a paradigm shift. But Steven Koonin rejoined that this
is also just what one would expect if Wolfram's ideas did not amount to a
paradigm shift. Ultimately, time will tell who is right.
---------------------
Of Triangles and Bulldogs
Is Stephen Wolfram a Modern Pythagoras?
By Michael Gilmore 

"I would rather understand one cause than be King of Persia."
--Democritus of Abdera

It was a warm day in Pasadena and a full house at Caltech's Beckman 
auditorium Saturday, February 1.

In a swift and densely packed hour, Stephen Wolfram presented ideas from his
1268 page best seller, A New Kind of Science, that deals with the
mathematical world of cellular automata It was a fine lecture, but was it
science? Is this the beginning of a new paradigm shift, as Wolfram so
repeatedly and confidently claimed?

I first wondered if this Saturday could be like that hot Oxford day when
Huxley, as Darwin's bulldog, debated Bishop Wilberforce about the new Theory
of Natural Selection? Perhaps Wolfram was his own bulldog: exceptionally
bright, eloquent, and confident, with a British accent to boot. But this was
a lonely bulldog, and he had no defenders. It was four to one in this debate,
with no soapy bishops among the Caltech panel of stellar scientists who
questioned Wolfram. Of course, science isn't done by consensus, but then 
Wolfram was no Darwin. At least not yet. He had made no new predictions about 
nature that the scientists sitting quietly in the auditorium could then go 
forth and check by microscope, cyclotron, or telescope.

As Wolfram talked, I remembered a hot summer day on the island of Samos. On
an Ionian trek, with my son Tyson, we had sailed to Samos to find the muses
of science. Pythagoras was the name most in evidence on the island. His
theorem regarded right triangles, you know. But, it was the legends of
Thales, Aristarchus, and Anaximander that was more to our taste. These guys
were the ancient equivalent to modern scientists. They pursued observation
and experiment. They got their hands dirty and used their brains.

But Pythagoras wasn't one of them. He professed that nature could be
understood by pure thought alone. Wolfram seemed to be pitching something
rather close to that idea. He also had an apparent obsession with triangles,
manifest throughout his magnum opus.

I think the ancient rift between the Ionian experimentalists and the
Pythagorian mystics gives some insight to the Wolfram question.

One modern manifestation of this ancient rift, is the traditional separation
between experimentalist and theoretician. One extreme is the stereotypical
well manicured, well dressed, elegant, and usually arrogant, theoretician,
who never has grease under the nail or eye to the microscope, yet knows all
the answers by thought alone.

Of course there is also the scientist who has gathered reams of observations
in the outback, but has never had a philosophical thought in his or her life.
Good science is, of course, neither of these stereotypes. Those who make
useful observations and experiments are usually driven by some variation of
what Michael Shermer calls "Darwin's dictum" where, as the sage of Down
said, "all observation must be fore or against some view if it is to be of
any service." Good theoreticians are informed by the latest observations and
experimental results. It is no accident that Galileo, Newton, Halley, 
Faraday, and Darwin were good with their hands and great experimentalists.

Yes, we all know of the exceptions. A famous example being the delightfully
arrogant theoretical physicist Wolfgang Pauli who allegedly could destroy
whole laboratories at a distance, just by his presence in their vicinity!

But, the most famous theoretical scientist of the 20th century, Einstein,
remarked how much he enjoyed the laboratory experience and was bored with the
lecture hall. Feynman's self constructed youthful laboratory was his joy, and
Enrico Fermi's world class reputation was grounded in both his theoretical
and laboratory talent.

We should keep these examples in mind when we sit at our computer screens day
after day. We must remember to pick ourselves up, roll up our sleeves, tinker
in the lab, explore the world, and observe nature.

The theorem of the sums of the squares of the sides of a right triangle may
not have been original with Pythagoras. But the method of mathematical
deduction for a general proof was his. Today's mathematical argument, and
scientific practice owes much to Pythagoras. However, there is no short cut
to the secrets of nature by mind alone, as the Pythagorians believed. At
least not yet.

Scientists today depend on Stephen Wolfram's Mathematica, which has become a
legendary standard program for technical computing throughout the world. This
software allowed Wolfram to explore deeply the mathematical world of cellular
automata. Cellular automata has elements of a sort of perfect and mystical
world. A world the Pythagorians really thought existed. It is a beautiful
mathematical creation, but it is not nature.

There is a deja vu about Stephen Wolfram, perhaps others have noticed it.
Like Wolfram, the American mathematician, Johnny von Neumann was a great
pioneer in computer science as well as cellular automata. Like Wolfram he was
incredibly bright, a child prodigy. (I checked some photos, they even look
alike.). Von Neumann's good friend, the British mathematician and polymath,
Jacob Bronowski, kindly found fault with him and stated Johnny von Neumann
was in love with the aristocracy of the intellect." This was a sin Bronowski
believed could destroy civilization. Like Galileo and Darwin, Wolfram has 
written a popular book. In doing so he isn't practicing the sin Bronowski had 
in mind regarding von Neumann. But, I can't help thinking of the "aristocracy 
of the intellect" when I consider the Pythagoreans and their mystical short 
cut to know the world. The aristocracy of the intellect, the arrogance about not getting your hands
dirty, and about having some sort of absolute knowledge with no test in the
world, are all closely related. And they are a barrier to doing good science.
