Hello.  My name is Mark Thomas, and I’m an Atheist.  I certainly can't speak for all Atheists, and I can speak for many of them about most subjects.

Atheists are, in most ways, just like religionists and everyone else.  We have all the emotions, such as love and joy and negative emotions.  We are truth seekers.  We get up in the morning and expect gravity to work just like it always has.  We expect light and sound to behave like they always have.  We expect the other laws of physics to continue working just like they always have, too.

Unlike some people, tho, we don't expect the laws of physics to be changed to suit our wishes.  We may hope for sunny days, but we know that our hopes won't change the weather.  We hope that our friends and relatives, when they get sick, will get better, and we know that just our hopes won't make them better.  We see that all living things are mortal, including us.  We may not like it, but we can't change the laws of physics.

The Atheist position is that the Universe is understandable and explainable in the naturalistic terms of science and mathematics.  There is no need or reliable evidence to show that any god or gods exist, especially a personal god of the Christian/Jewish/Muslim type.  There have been over 2500 gods created by humankind.  Monotheists don’t believe in all but one of them.  Atheists don’t believe in just one more.

People have been struggling with mortality for thousands of years.  Here are three quotes that I like:

The first is from the ancient Greek philosopher Epicurus.  “Why should I fear death?  If I am, death is not.  If death is, I am not.  Why should I fear that which can only exist when I do not?”

The scientist/philosopher Carl Sagan wrote, “For me, it is far better to grasp the Universe as it really is than to persist in delusion, however satisfying and reassuring.”

Mark Twain wrote, “I was dead for millions of years before I was born and it never inconvenienced me a bit.” 

Many religious people ask how Atheists can be happy without God.  For me and for many Atheists I know, the realization of our Atheism has been extremely freeing and has opened us to our own happiness. 
Atheism gives us the ability to see the Universe as it actually is, without the mental filters of superstition preventing us from directly experiencing it. 
Atheism allows us to experience our selves, without the debasing idea that we are innately sinful. 
Atheism gives us the freedom to think for ourselves, to construct our own meanings.  We each can choose what we think has value. 
Atheism allows us to experience true interpersonal love, without any supernatural intervention. 
Atheism lets us see that we have to make choices about our future.  No big daddy god is going to protect us from bad decisions. 
Atheism teaches us to treasure this moment, this life, and this world — because we realize that it’s all we have.

Most Atheists are also Secular Humanists.  The philosophy of Secular Humanism takes the Atheist position and adds another layer.  It declares that humans are most important, not any imaginary gods.  We have the power, thru love, reason, science, courage, and vision, to solve our problems.  We shape our destiny.  We are each capable of personal development and satisfaction.  Humanism holds as its highest goal the happiness, fulfillment, and freedom of all humankind.
This has been a long and involved talk, so I would like to conclude with letting you know the bad news ... and the good news.  The bad news is that there is no god to watch over and care for us.  The good news is that there is no hell, and we can all love and care for each other — if we so choose.


Part of my philosophy is the idea that anyone can believe whatever they want, as long as they don't interfere with my life or our nation.

Tonite we will be talking about religious fundamentalism, which is the extreme version of many religions.  Fundamentalism is usually:
 1) Based on a need for certainty, which they derive from a declared inerrancy of a book or leader
 2) Authoritarian and partriarchal
 3) Opposed (often militantly) to modernist theology, secular humanism, and cultural change

What I find troubling about fundamentalism is its opposition to change, and fundamentalists' often militant actions in their attempts to acheive their goals.  9/11 was a product of Muslim fundamentalism.  The bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Building in Oklahoma City was a product of Christian fundamentalism.

Fundamentalists seek to limit education, medicine and government to just the versions that they approve of.




