Hello Barry,

I was very pleased to see you on Bill O'Reilly's show, and thought that you did well.  As usual, he rode roughshod over his 'guest' and tried to bully you.  You stood your ground well, and I think that there are some good responses to his statements, that you didn't use.

1) Philosophy and science are areas of human creation that grow.  There are many ideas that our founding fathers had, that most people currently don't agree with:
 a) slavery
 b) limited women's rights
 c) no children's rights
 d) property ownership necessary for voting rights
 e) deism (the deistic god is very different from the Christian god)
 f) phlogiston (the hypothetical material that made objects flammable)

2) He used many quotes supposedly from founding fathers, and I don't remember if this from James Madison was one of them.  "We have staked the whole future of American civilization, not upon the power of government, far from it. We have staked the future of all of our political institutions upon the capacity of each and all of us to govern ourselves according to the Ten Commandments of God."

The main problem with it is that Madison almost certainly never said it.  See http://www.positiveatheism.com/writ/founding.htm for further documentation on how the religious right has been so wrong about many quotes.

3) Ultimately, what matters is what the founders put in our Constitution.  As you know, religion is only mentioned twice in it, and both times limit religious intrusion into our government.  They knew well the problems that arise when government and religion are entwined. 

4) Our Constitution was designed to protect the rights of the minorities from the tyranny of the majority. All Americans have a constitutional right to freedom of religion. This includes freedom from religion, because we can’t have true freedom unless we have the right to choose "none of the above." References to "God" by our government impose the tyranny of a state religion, and are thus unconstitutional.

5) Our nation was founded as the first country that derived its power from a purely secular, nonreligious basis. All nations before then had kings and queens who used their supposed "god-given divine right" to rule. Instead of this top-down power structure, our founders wisely created a government which derived its powers from the consent of the governed. They also realized the inherent divisiveness of religion, and kept it specifically out of our Constitution and government. The Treaty of Tripoli, written during the administration of President George Washington, signed by President John Adams and unanimously approved by the Senate in 1797, stated "The Government of the United States is not in any sense founded on the Christian religion."
