Most religious folk never read it, or, is they read it, they do it in 
groups, reading selected passages, with a professional spin-doctor as 
groupp leader. They read it with a firm presupposition that (1) the 
Boble is the word of God, and (2) the Bible is a GOOD book. If you 
read it without thise presuppositions, read it as you would any other 
book, there are a lot of strange and horrible things to be found. 
Some have said that the Bible is the best available disproof of the 
existence of God- if there were a God, he wouldn't tolerate THAT book 
being sold in his name.

My own leaning would be to read it with an eye to the ethics being 
taught. Yahveh is a cartoon villian, as evil, vain, and vindictive as 
they come; his ethics are barbaric. He lies in the Garden of Eden, 
and the Serpent tells the exact truth. He lies, and even boasts of 
lying, in several other places. He supports and commands Slavery, 
polygamy, genocidal war, collective and familial guilt, animal 
sacrifice, human sacrifice; no trace of either justice or mercy. 
Women are not just property, women are filthy dirty and any man who 
touches one defiles himself.

Jesus' ethics are apocalyptic; he believes the world is ending, so 
his recommended actions are utterly unworldly- leave your job, leave 
your family, abandon all your Earthly ambitions, give away your 
wealth, seek to do good works, avoid getting any Earthly reward for 
your good works, follow the entire Mosaic Law, overfulfill the Mosaic 
Law, abstain from sex, abstain from judging others, practice 
humility, mercy, and peacemaking. You are not seeking to have a happy 
life, or a successful life on Earth; you are applying for a job as an 
angel when the Earth is destroyed, and all but a select few are cast 
into the fires of Hell. This is the view taught in Mattew, Mark, and 
Luke; the Jesus described in John is very different. John's Jesus is 
not an ethical teacher, he's a sacrificial lamb; the perfect human 
sacrifice to appease Yahveh's anger.

The teachings of Paul differ in several ways from the teachings of 
Jesus; most obviously, on the issue of following the Mosaic Law, 
which Paul says is not required.
