How to suck cock? Part 1 
(Articles Article)  
The Art of Fellatio or How to Suck Cock Introduction This chapter is for those gals who wonder what sucking a mans cock is all about, think they might like to do it, or already do it but want to learn how to both give and receive more pleasure from it. It will teach them the skills they need so that both they and their partner can receive more pleasure from fellatio. Studies show that from 50 to 80 percent of women perform fellatio. Of those, 35 to 65 percent find it pleasurable, with the rest saying they can take it or leave it or don't enjoy it. Other studies show 90 percent of married couples under 25 giving head. If you're just sucking cock because your man wants you to, read on, your man may find himself waking up in the middle of the night with his cock in your mouth. Why would a woman like to suck a man's cock? Why would she even want to put his cock in her mouth? First off, you have to have a man with the right attitude about sex and your needs before you should even think about putting his cock in your mouth or anywhere else in you for that matter, enough said. I've sucked a few cocks over the years and talked to many women who have also. Some women submit to sex, some accept it; some willingly participate when aroused, but some really like it and don't always wait for their man to initiate it. Unfortunately, a lot of those women who only submit to or accept sex simply have a lousy lover. Most women I know who really like sex also like to suck cock. I don't like to suck cock instead of fucking; I like it as a supplement to fucking. Sucking a man's cock makes my cunt ache to have one in it. I love to suck him off and then keep working on his cock until I can get him hard enough to fuck me. Those fucks are some of the best I've ever had, well, maybe tied with having him eat me first. But never mind who does and who doesn't do it, I think that the reasons those who do suck cock do it are similar to the two that make men like to eat pussy, plus a third unique to women. First, they have a loving caring man and the more he likes what they do, the hotter their cunts get. The second is the role that the mouth and tongue play in sex. Why do people kiss? They receive pleasure from the interaction that takes place during a kiss. The mouth, lips and tongue are some of the more erogenous zones of the body and are active rather than passive, you do something with them. You nibble on his ears, kiss and suck on his nipples, kiss his navel, why not kiss and suck on the most sexual part of his body, that thing you love to have thrust into you, his cock. The third is the almost subconscious sexual desire of a woman to draw a man into her body, when she gets hot she wants his cock in her, and her mouth is an inviting place to put it. Put this all together and his cock in your mouth is where it's at gals. Just for a minute, forget how good it feels to a man for a woman to take his cock into her soft loving mouth, lick it, suck it, and slide her lips down over it until she has her face buried in his bush. Let your imagination conjure up images of your favorite movie star's cock in your mouth. It's live, warm, feel it throb as his hart beats. Feel it pulse as he tightens his muscles. Imagine sucking it inside you and bringing him to climax. Sucking a man's cock can be one of the pure pleasures in a woman's life. It's sad to think that many women don't appreciate just how much fun it can be. One reason for this, outside of being with the wrong man, is that they don't know how to suck cock and so it doesn't end up being much fun. Because if you mess up, you don't get your reward. The cock doesn't get hard, the man doesn't have a good time and the woman feels like a failure. Other reasons are: a man's cock is dirty; he urinates through it; he won't respect me if I do it; he'll cum in my mouth. The answers are: if he washes his cock, it's as clean as your finger that you willingly put in your mouth; urine is not poison and doesn't carry germs, besides he doesn't urinate when he has a hard-on; he'll probably love you for it and give you head to boot; he won't cum in your mouth if you don't want him to, besides you'll probably want him to when you get into it. Many women who do give head seem to think that simply making a cunt of their mouth, closing it around a man's cock, and bobbing their heads lustily up and down until he climaxes automatically makes them experts. That is not so girls! But here's the good news; it's easy to learn how to be a terrific cock-sucker and once you find out how to do it right, your man will love it and so will you. It'll take some practice, but that's work? What's Down There? But first things first. Let's talk about the "basic cock." LOOK at his cock. I don't mean a casual glance, study that thing you're thinking about wrapping your lips around. You've had it in your cunt and it felt good there, it just might feel good in your mouth. He'll be glad to let you look at it, if you want to look at it, you just might want to do something else with it. Turn on a strong light and get him flat on his back on your bed. Take his cock in your hand and see if you can get it hard. Now, take a close look at it. The main part is called the shaft. There's a bulbous part near the outer end, slightly larger in diameter than the shaft, which is called the glans of penis or head. The ridge where the head joins the shaft is called the corona. This is the most sensitive part of his cock. Follow this ridge around to the underside. There's a juncture where the two ends come together. This tiny area is easily the most sensitive spot on his entire body. Just like your clit, this is where the action is. You can bring him to climax by gently tapping the tip of your tongue directly on it. The opening in the tip of the head is the meatus. Here's where that cum that's been squirting out into your cunt has been coming from. The shaft doesn't have many nerve endings over a particular area or any special nerves. As a result, it doesn't provide a man with any high degree of stimulation when caressed, either with your hand or your tongue. The shaft will, however, respond to pressure. There is also power in numbers, so when all of its nerves are fully enclosed in a warm, wet mouth that's sucking and slipping and sliding around on it, the feeling is great. The deeper the better girls. Underneath the shaft, where it joins his body, is the scrotum, and inside are the testicles (family jewels, balls, nuts). This is where his sperm is created. You're born with all of your eggs, but he continuously manufactures sperm to fertilize those eggs. They're also sensitive to temperature, they don't like to get too hot or too cold. When his balls get too cold, the scrotum shrinks and pulls his balls up against his body to keep them warm. When they get too warm, the scrotum extends to let them cool. His balls are also pulled up against his body inside his scrotum when he's getting ready to cum. His balls are sensitive to excessive pressure and are all too often ignored as an erogenous area. Big mistake! Men actually like for a woman they trust to play with their balls, if they know how to do it. Study his cock, play with it with your hand, and ask him what feels best. Run your tongue over it, feel the texture, watch his reactions as you lick the various areas. Take some of it in your mouth and hold it there for a while. Watch his reaction and think about how it feels in your mouth physically and what it feels like to have your man's cock in your mouth emotionally. There are other parts of a man's body, which respond well to oral stimulation. Spend some time finding them. Getting Ready Now that you've taken time to really look at his cock and play with it some, you've gotten beyond "Parts is parts" and recognize that some parts are more equal than others. It takes a reasonable amount of skill and practice to become a good cocksucker, to know how to work on those parts in a way that provides him with the pleasure he's looking for and enjoy doing it. Lets start in with the first lesson. Where should you be when you're sucking his cock? Between his legs, on top of him, in a sixty nine position? Actually, any place where you can get his cock in your mouth, a car seat, chair, him standing on his head, it really doesn't matter as long as you're both comfortable. However, because of the way his cock and your mouth, lips, tongue, teeth and throat are made and what you have to do to his cock, you can make him enjoy it more and get more out of it yourself by kneeling between his legs. This can be with both of you on the bed or with his hips at the edge of the bed and you on the floor. You can make eye contact and he can easily stroke your head with his hands in this position. Deep-throating works better with slightly different positions but we'll get to that later, lets get his cock in your mouth first. Lets start out with both of you on the bed. The down side of you being on the bed is that holding your head up while you bend over his cock can tire you if you want to go at it for a long time but it'll be fine for these first lessons. You can stretch out between his legs and lay your head on his thigh with his cock in your mouth, but it's hard to do much with it in this position. A fairly common position, which also works well for deep-throating and throat fucking, is with him standing and you kneeling on a cushion in front of him. We talked about him giving you head on a lazy summer afternoon in the first chapter, sometimes when you're giving him head, you'll want to just lie there and play with his cock. Maybe you've been fucking and he's cum a couple of times. You get the urge to give him a blowjob and can probably work up a hard-on for him with some effort, but it'll take a while for him to cum. The best position for this is probably the same as for leisurely eating pussy, him lying with his hips at the side of the bed, his feet and knees resting in chairs, you resting on a cushion on the floor with his cock in your mouth and his head on a pillow watching you. You can recline there with his balls in your hand and your head resting on his thigh, making eye contact while you suck on his cock for hours. If you want to tilt your head back to deep-throat his cock, just rise up on your knees and have at it. He can easily put his hands on your head in this position also. The side-by-side 69 position with your head on his thigh and his cock in your mouth is a nice comfortable position; it also puts his face enticingly close to your pussy. Try various positions. See what works best for the two of you. What Do You Do With His Cum If there's one thing you should try to cultivate a taste for it's his cum, you don't have to swallow it, just let him cum in your mouth. Any time you've had his cock in your mouth and he's been anywhere near cuming, some of his cum has been dribbling out of it and you probably didn't even notice it. It may seem that I'm devoting a lot of space to this subject. I am, but that's because it's currently a hot subject with many people going off on tangents about diets and using condoms and on and on. I think that his cum should be considered a part of his climax that has to occur with his cock in your mouth and that you should cultivate a taste for it. Although a lot of women like it's taste and look forward to it, it's not a pleasant taste for a number of women. However, it's a taste that can be cultivated and it becomes a pleasant experience if you just let your self get caught up in his climax and taste his orgasm, not just his cum. I love the sensations of his pulsing, thrusting cock squirting his cum into my mouth and throat, but sometimes I like to watch it shoot. It gives me visual images for my wet dreams and besides, it's a thrill to see the spurting cum. It's amazing how that stuff shoots out. If you want to watch, you'll feel it coming with your hand and know when to back off. If you're fast, you can even try to catch some on your tongue. However, even though I like to watch it shoot, that's not necessarily what a man likes for it to do, not up in the air anyway. Lets face it; the male of the species' basic function in life is to impregnate the female. He does that by planting his sperm in her, not up in the air, as deep and often as he can. He can control that desire to a point, but doing so robs him of a deep innate satisfaction that's very meaningful to many men, they're more emotional than they let on. He wants your body to suck all of that sperm out of his cock and swallow it up. Whether or not you swallow their cum is not a big deal with most men. They like to see you do it but they really don't want you to take their cock out of your mouth until they've finished cuming and started to come down from their emotional high. When he's fucking you, you feel that you're drawing him into yourself when you cum, part of his sexual makeup is a mirror image of yours and he feels that he's being drawn into you when he cums. He needs for you to keep his cock in your mouth, continuing to increase the intensity of your fellatio, until he cums and his climax lets down. It's a real letdown for him if you take his cock out of your warm soft mouth just as he's reaching the climax that you've both worked so hard for and jack him off into a wet rag. It's almost like him pulling his cock out of your cunt just as you start to cum and finishing you off with his finger. So brace yourselves girls and keep that cock in your mouth until he's finished and you've both started to come down. You really were worked up over what you were doing weren't you? Besides, that's not a bad choice. Remember, he can jack himself off and watch it shoot on the shower floor without any help from you. I'm not going to try and tell you his cum tastes like honey, it doesn't. What I am going to try and tell you is that its taste shouldn't be a big deal. Sex is messy, you get his cum and the juices from your cunt all over each other and the bed when you fuck and it doesn't matter until you have to clean it up. Most men will grab you, hug you and kiss you after you've finished giving them head, and they won't ask you to wash your mouth out first, it just doesn't matter in the heat of passion. The taste of cum varies from man to man and from time to time. One man's cum can taste good to one woman and bad to another. It has a texture similar to the white of a raw egg. It can be almost tasteless with a faint aftertaste that I can't quite describe. It's usually slightly salty and can be somewhat bitter. There's some evidence there's less taste if a man has had a vasectomy and there's no sperm in it, nice isn't it, he's safe and tasteless. There's also not much odor until it dries and then it's rather offensive. You must remember, this is not like wine tasting where taste is everything, it's sex, and sex is mostly in the mind. I read a lot of questions from women about how bad cum tastes and what to do about it. I also read comments from those who say they love to take his cum in their mouths and swallow every drop of it. I think it's the same old story about a vocal minority opposing something they don't like while the silent majority either likes it or doesn't care one way or the other. I said something earlier about women I know personally who like sex liking to suck cock; all of them like for their man to cum in their mouths and look forward to swallowing it. Some say they like the taste, most say the taste just doesn't matter, they want him to cum in their mouth to complete his orgasm and their blowjob. You do a lot of things when you're sexually aroused that you might not otherwise do. When you're giving him head, you're already sexually aroused, or else you wouldn't have his cock in your mouth in the first place. To enjoy giving him head you need to let yourself go and become immersed in bringing him to his orgasm. This works better if he's done his part and gotten you good and hot before you start, but not made you cum yet. The anticipation of him passionately eating out your pussy after you finish giving him head will keep your mind off such things as the taste of his cum and it running down your chin and dripping on your breasts while his cock is sliding in and out of your mouth. If you read the first chapter on eating pussy, you'll recall that the problem is similar to a man's first attempt at giving you head, accept that a woman's pussy does taste and smell like honey to many men after they get into it. You'll probably let him cum in your mouth at first because you know it detracts from his orgasm if he doesn't and you want to give him as much pleasure as you can. You know it feels good to him and he likes to do it. Hopefully, taking his cum into your mouth will not be something you do just because he wants you to. As you let yourself get caught up in the emotions of having sex with your man, the thoughts, the anticipation of having his cock deep in your mouth and throat will excite you sexually. You'll want his cock in you; you'll fantasize about his cum shooting into your mouth, not to taste it but to taste his climax. You'll do all you can to bring him to climax, eagerly waiting for his cock to start pulsing and thrusting in your mouth, signaling the beginning of his orgasm. You'll suck hard on his cock as it pulses to increase his pleasure, waiting for his cum to start so you can suck it out and let it shoot into your mouth. You'll feel his cum spurting out with each pulse of his cock, taste it as you suck out the last drops and swallow them and then lick his cock clean like you were sucking the juice off a popsicle. You'll may find yourself wanting to keep his cock in your mouth for a while after he cums until you start to let down from the sexual high you were on while you were sucking him off. If you don't want to start out with him cuming in your mouth, let him cum in your hand. Then stick your tongue in it and taste it. Let him taste it at the same time, he'll do it if he's concerned about your needs. Dip your tongue in it and then give him a deep French kiss. Now take just enough in your mouth to be able to fully experience its flavor and texture, swish it around with your tongue and then spit it out. Don't wash your mouth out, just let the flavor slowly dissolve as it mixes with your saliva and learn about its aftertaste. Try taking the rest of it in your mouth and holding it there, then spitting it out. Once you get used to having a quantity of his cum in your mouth, try spitting out most of it and swallowing the rest. When you've tasted his cum and feel you're ready to go for it, let him cum directly in your mouth, you don't have to take all of it the first time, there's only a spoon full or so, just take some of it in, pull his cock out, finish him off with your hand and let the rest squirt somewhere else, you can clean it up later. As you do it more often, you'll begin to like the sexuality of it and look forward to taking all of it, it becomes a sensual thing, a part of your natural desire to participate in his orgasm to the fullest extent, drawing him into you as he climaxes. If you don't want to swallow it at first, spit it out. Then, smile up at him, take his cock back in your mouth and play with it for a while. Gently now, because it's sensitive just like your clit after you've cum, suck those last few drops out of it and lick it clean. This says, hey, I want your cock in my mouth when you cum, I want to suck your load out of your cock and feel it shoot into my mouth, I just don't want to swallow it. I bet you'll soon be looking forward to swallowing it, most women do, besides, it's not as messy that way. You'll find out that swallowing his cum can be an intensely intimate act for both of you; it can be a significant symbolic gesture of love. Good sex isn't just the pleasure of reaching a climax; it's when you share each other's climax. It's when your efforts to bring him to a climax excite you to the point where you could almost cum, sometimes his cum squirting into your mouth even drives you over the top. If you like to swallow it and have learned to swallow with his cock in your mouth, swallow it as he cums, otherwise keep it in your mouth until he's done. If you're sucking on his cock while he's cuming, you won't have much cock in your mouth, just an inch or so. You should be able to swallow normally, just like you were drinking coke out of a bottle. When he's finished cuming, hold your lips tight around his cock, look up at him, and slide your mouth off it like you were sucking the juice off a popsicle, then swallow whatever is still in your mouth. Take his cock back in your mouth a couple of more times, sucking and licking it clean while maintaining eye contact and smiling. Let him know you like it. I said earlier, you could either swallow his cum or spit it out. There's a third choice, if you're into deep-throating, he can shoot it into the bottom of your throat and it'll go straight down your esophagus into your stomach. We'll talk about deep-throating a little further on. For most men, it feels great, both physically and psychologically, for you to suck the cum out of their cock during orgasm, just like you were sucking it out of a straw. Your throat can't play with the head of his cock and suck on it while he's at the height of his orgasm, only your mouth can do that. You'll learn to use your mouth and throat to bring him up to a high level of excitement and then bring him to an intense orgasm with his cock in your mouth. Although sometimes you'll both want him to shoot his load down into the bottom of your throat, you still need to learn to take it into your mouth because you can give most men the greatest pleasure by completing their climax with their cock in your mouth. Once you begin experiencing the pleasures of cock-sucking, you'll probably want to deep-throat his cock, it's that sexual thing of the more the better, he'll want all of his cock in you and you'll want all of his cock in you, it's a win win situation. There'll be times then, when his cock is sliding in and out of you from just inside your lips down to the bottom of your throat, that you'll both want to forget where his cock is and just let him cum, keeping up, or increasing, the intensity of your fellatio until he comes down from his orgasm. In this case, he'll probably leave a trail of cum from your lips to the bottom of your throat. We'll talk more about him cuming in your throat in the following sections. Basic Playing Around It doesn't matter what setting you choose, you can be home in bed or parked on your town's main street, just find whatever level of privacy you need to feel relaxed. For the purpose of these lessons let's say you're still on the bed where you were examining him and you managed to get his cock hard. Kneel down between his legs and take his balls in your left hand and his cock in your right. Squeeze his cock gently down toward the bottom of the shaft and get ready to suck. Run your tongue over your lips to get them good and wet and look into his eyes. Men love to watch their cock disappearing into a woman. Now open your mouth just slightly to tease and excite him and come very close to his cock. Breathe on him, blow on him with your hot breath. Stick your tongue out again and reach for him, tease him. Making sure your tongue is dripping wet, begin at the bottom of his shaft and lick upwards, slowly. Turn your head sideways and pretend to take a bite of him, gently setting your teeth into his flesh. Wet him again with your tongue, use your hand to spread the liquid around. A wet cock looks and sounds a lot sexier than a dry one. Your left-hand meanwhile is massaging his balls, perhaps scratching them lightly with your fingernails. After you've licked his shaft lots of times and it's all wet and hard, he's going to start squirming with frustration if you don't start getting serious. A quick look up at his face will let you know when you're stretching things out too long. Teasing is great . . . to a point. A little experience in cock-sucking will teach you when you need to go on to better things. On one of your upward swings with your tongue, from the base of his shaft to the rim of his knob, don't stop. Continue your long, wet lick up over the head of his cock, lingering at the hole in the center. Stick your tongue into it, but don't suck the head yet. Now run your tongue all the way around the rim of his knob several times, lingering to work on that sensitive spot on the bottom each time. Ask questions, find out how much he likes for you to work on that spot. As I said earlier, the shaft of his cock does respond to pressure, and there are a lot of nerve endings when you include all of it. Don't forget that much of the pleasure we derive from sex is in the mind, it's psychological, emotional. When a man feels your warm soft mouth and tongue giving his cock a workout, feels you trying to suck his balls out through it, sees your lips sliding down over it until it fills your mouth, the overall feeling is hard to describe. When you take all of this into account, the deeper the better girls. Each man is unique and so is his cock. Squeeze the shaft and see if some clear liquid pops up. If it does, dip your tongue into it and pull away. It will stretch with you and look fantastically erotic to him. Now, make like you love the stuff. Close in on that cock head like it was a chocolate ice-cream cone and take the whole knob into your hot mouth. Don't just open your mouth and close it around his cock, sliiide your wet lips down over it until they close around the shaft just behind the corona. Then gently suck on his cock just hard enough to pull a little more of it into your mouth. Sucking on it feels great to him, hold it there, listen to him moan. Now, move your head down quickly, sucking as much of his cock into your mouth as you can comfortable take. Don't worry, you won't choke so long as you don't try to take it in too far, we'll get to suppressing your gag reflex so you can take more of it in later. Encase the rest of the shaft of his cock with your hand. Remember the shaft is relatively insensitive to local stimulation. However, when you close your hand around his cock you give him the sensation of having his whole cock encased and that feels great. Stay there with his cock filling your mouth. Feel it inside of you. When you get to where you can take it down into your throat, it can be almost as luscious as having one in your cunt. It grows in, uh, on you. You're going to have to keep your jaws open wide enough to keep your teeth off his cock. When you first start out your jaws are probably going to get tired, it's sort of like sitting in a dentist's chair with your mouth open. You'll get used to it after a while. You can pull your lips back over your teeth for protection and let your jaws rest on his cock from time to time to relax them. Now try the basic fellatio movements. First, slide your lips back up to the tip of his cock and flick your tongue against it. Try twisting your head from side to side, up and down, and around and around, making sure your moist lips stay in contact with his ridge as they slide around. Keep sucking on it, sometimes gently, sometimes hard. While you're doing this, gently move your moist hand up and down the shaft. He'll be getting antsy now, wanting you to take it all in. Don't let him, if he had his way it'd be over in two minutes and what fun would that be? Then, moving as fast as he can handle it (don't let him cum yet), hold your hand against your lips and slide your mouth and moist hand up and down on his cock as if you're fucking him. Press your tongue against the bottom of his cock and let it's head slide back and forth between your tongue and the roof of your mouth, watch your teeth. You have to massage the head of his cock, not just the shaft. When he gets close to cuming, get ready for his climax. As he nears his climax, he may try to slide your mouth farther down over his cock. He wants all of his cock in your mouth. Instead, slide your mouth back up to the tip of his cock, working on the corona and sucking on it as you bring him to his climax. You need to feel the response of his cock to his climax in these early lessons. We've been talking about sucking on his cock, but how do you suck on it? Besides just working on his cock with your lips and tongue when it's in your mouth, you should also be sucking on it any time its head is in front of your tongue (your tongue is what pulls the vacuum so its head has to be in front of your tongue for him to feel it where it counts). Sucking on the head of his cock feels quite different to him from licking it. Not just gentle sucks but strong ones, like you were trying to get something out of it, which you probably are by this time. Be careful though; don't pull a hickey on it. There are deep-sucks and little ones and both feel damn great. He may have a preference however, so watch his reactions. Taking just the knob in your mouth, suck on it as if it were a nipple or a straw while you're moving your mouth around the head with your lips massaging the coronal ridge. This feels so good to the man; it makes my cunt hot just thinking about it. The other suck is a long, sweeping one, where you suck his cock into your mouth as far as you can, and then pull your mouth back off it, sucking on it as if you were sucking the juice off a popsicle. Any of these moves will feel great the first few times you do them, but after a while, it's as if the cock gets immune to feeling. When you sense this, change what you're doing. You don't want his cock to go to sleep. You want it constantly stimulated as you build him up to orgasm. Which is just about where we are now. Okay, you've got a raging hard-on in your right hand and some tight balls in your left, lean back for just a moment and take a look at it. It's beautiful, isn't it? Move your right hand all the way to the base of the cock and squeeze it there. This will cause the shaft to fill and thicken, and by now the knob will be smooth and shining. Take his cock back into your mouth, sucking on it and trying out all your various moves until you know the man can't stand any more and he's going to blast off. What you do now is between you and your lover. As you continue with these lessons, don't forget that sucking his cock should give you pleasure also, don't do it just because he wants you to. It's very important that your man take the time for enough foreplay to get you to the point where you want his cock in you. You'll learn to savor the sensations that come with having his cock in your mouth and throat; you'll enjoy bringing intense pleasure to him and sharing in his climax. As you continue with these lessons, don't get so caught up in the mechanics of bringing him to climax that you miss out on the fun. Suck his cock in a way that feels good to you also. There's no blowjob like a blowjob given by a happy cocksucker who loves her work. 
   submitted on 2/28/2004 by voyeurs69in2003  
