Hi Rick,

I can appreciate your concerns.  Sometimes I have problems just getting rid of old books that I will never read.

I hope that you will consider more ideas.  Last year there was an email debate concerning this.  We came to the realization that it's just a few of these bibles, of which there are way too many around anyway.  We're not advocating burning large numbers of books, or prohibiting them in any way.  We just used some bibles for a tossing contest, and some pages from one as kindling for the cooking fire.  It seemed appropriate -- us relegating these pages to the fire, instead of them sending us to hell.  When we do this, we're just showing that these particular books have no magical power.  They're as useful as last year's tabloid magazines.  The magic is all in our heads.  Would you be upset if we tossed or burned magazines or newspapers?

Some psychologists recommend writing down negative thoughts and actions, then burning the paper.  It can help people get on with their lives.  The bible toss helps some get over the idea that bibles are so important.  Catharsis can be good, if it's done properly.

When Nazis or xtians have big book or record burning events, it's because they think that these media have magic and need to be destroyed -- as many as possible.  KKK cross burnings are about intimidation and physical threats.  Obviously, the actions of a few dozen Atheists having fun playing with useless books at a picnic don't compare.  We didn't call the press, tell them that we're for banning bibles, and that we would have a big bonfire of them.  We really didn't make that big a deal over the bible toss.  It was just one of the silly games we played to have fun and help us socialize.

Last year, Jim Heldberg also invented a game he called "Hail Mary."  He pounded a 5-foot stake into the ground, then put a little statue of Mary on its top.  Two teams stood in parallel lines with the post in the center, about 4 feet away.  We then threw ice cubes (hail) at the statue until it was knocked off.  Was it disrepectful of the Catholic Church's veneration of Mother Mary?  Sure.  Did we rub it in the faces of people who would be upset?  Nope.

As for public flag burning, we both realize that it does upset some people.  But that's only because they ascribe such great importance to the piece of cloth.  As you know, what really matters are the ideals of our country -- not some colored threads.

Even if you still think that what we did was terrible, I hope that you will reconsider leaving.  If freedom means anything, it means allowing people to do and say things that we don't always like.  It's easy to defend someone's right to actions or words if you agree with them; the key is when you disagree.

With all the religion crap being spread by so many groups and even politicians and the government, we need all the help we can get.

Take care,
Mark


-----Original Message-----
From: Rick Kopnisky [mailto:rkopnisky@earthlink.net]
Sent: Thursday, July 08, 2004 9:41 AM
To: Mark W. Thomas
Subject: RE: Question


Mark, I've thought about this and I'm not going to be involved with ASV anymore.  I don't want to be a part of an organization that has no problem with book burning.  You folks have been good company and I regret this, but I need to go my own way at this point.  

What follows are my thoughts on your response to my question.  I hope that they give you cause to reconsider your position.


> If it did happen, it was just burning paper.  

Book burning is not just burning paper.  Is flag burning just burning cloth?  If so, why does it need first amendment protection as protected speech?  Because it is saying something.  Burning a book is making a statement.  Is burning a cross just burning wood?


> It has also been cathartic for many of the participants.

I've been talking with a friend who moved to Las Vegas recently.  She has been approached by Mormon missionaries.  She grew up in a Masonic home so she is particularly vulnerable to the Mormon message as they have adopted many of their ceremonies from the Free Masons.  Also she is a woman and the Masons will only let her in so deep.

She turned to me for advice.  She asked for information.  I pointed her to various resources on the web including the SVA site.  She's been reading.  She went to the library and checked out some books on Mormonism.  When the missionaries came back, she had something to talk about.  They informed her that the book wasn't approved by the LDS church.  As such, it should be destroyed.  They offered to burn it, right there in front of her.  She said, "It is never OK to burn books,"  and showed them the door.

She's right.

Do you think the Mormons don't feel a catharsis when they burn an heretical book?  Catharsis is not an excuse.  Civilization has lost too much to book burning.  The irony is that during the incident at the picnic, I was discussing the tragedy of book burnings by religionists during the Thirty Years War with someone new from the east bay.

When Kristina told me what went on, I felt ashamed to be an atheist for the first time in years.

Please take my name off of the ASV membership rolls.