The new scouting program is not affiliated with either the Boy or 
Girl Scouts of America programs, but rather is a new program with 
membership for co-ed youth and adults and open to all on an 
inclusive secular non-discriminatory basis.  Youth membership is 
open to boys and girls ages 6 to 18. Programs consist of 6-11 and 11-
18.  The programs are family oriented and support the growth and 
character development of youth and the greater community by 
providing outdoor skill programming activities that enrich the 
individual on a non discriminatory basis; putting principles of 
mutual respect into practice through FUN social activities, outdoor 
skill programming, character building, personal achievement, 
learning by doing, and related educational programs promoting good 
character in youth members.

The Campfire, USA program is an outstanding program- however, it 
also is not scouting.  The campfire program has approximately 500,00 
youth whereas the combined total of scouting in America exceeds 7 
million.  Generally an example of how the programs are 
distinguishable is the extensive use of outdoor skill programming by 
scouts versus the general appreciation of the outdoors by the 
Campfire, USA program.  We do not mean to suggest anything negative 
about the Campfire USA program, just stating the obvious- it is just 
not scouting.  Surely a reply will be why hasn't the Campfire, USA 
program enlarged in scope and become an alternative scouting 
program.  The answer is if they wanted to they could have, they have 
not expressed interest in modifying their program and frankly nor 
should they feel they need to.  Their program is over 90 years old 
and has contributed to the social life of youth in a positive way 
and continues to do so.

As for the need for our program, a survey recently taken by the Boy 
Scouts Of America is purported to say that 30% of the parents in the 
existing BSA program are dissatisfied with the existing program in 
some way.  In addition, programming by and for youth on an 
inclusive, secular basis can and now will be available through the 
introduction of this program.  The program being created is not a 
non-theistic program it is a program for all youth.  There currently 
is no secular and inclusive scouting organization in the United 
States and thus far we have not found one elsewhere in the world.

There are many other scouting groups even here in the United States 
including the Latvian Scouts and SprialScouts. It is a principle of 
the new group to be a Brother/Sister to all other scouts and a 
friend to all. We seek to have a mutual cooperative relationship 
with all other scouting organizations.  Our scouting program is for 
the youth and for each person to strive to be the best person they 
can be using the abilities they have and with guidance to enhance 
their abilities and to learn by doing.  We are not advocating anyone 
leave an existing scouting organization, rather we look forward to 
when all persons can say proudly they are a scout.  

We are now seeking to identify organizational sponsors for our units 
in each locale.  Please help to identify organizations which would 
be appropriate as sponsors. 

The quick answers regarding sponsorship are:
 
Sponsorship of the organization as a whole means financial support.  
We particularly need assistance for the cost of the initial launch 
in Washington, D.C. and subsidization of the youth who will be 
traveling to the launch as the official first representatives of 
each of the initial units.  
 
Of course support is always welcome even if its not financial based, 
such as helping to identify high profile persons who are interested 
themselves in publicly supporting the program or whom would be 
interested in financially supporting the program.
 
Sponsoring a unit is different.  It entails supporting the local 
unit populated with local youth, many of whom are members of the 
chartering organization- but some of whom are not.  The costs are 
not great and each local organization usually provides a place to 
meet, and grants or subsidy for youth who cant afford the costs of 
membership.  Sometimes group support is made in donations for basic 
equipment for the group particularly at start up.  The costs of this 
are NOT great, but the smiles and experiences the youth are given an 
opportunity to share in because the program is available to them are 
once in a lifetime ones.  These experiences offer a FUN opportunity 
for the youth participants to learn about themselves using a non-
school educational platform through activities which permit the 
youth learning by doing it themselves, character building/ personal 
achievement innovations the youth self choose, family and global 
citizenship all via outdoor skill programming. 

We can be contacted at changescouting@yahoo.com or at 1-800-345-4099.
