http://www.newyorker.com/printable/?critics/050103crbo_books
January 9, 2005 | home

THE VANISHING
by MALCOLM GLADWELL
In “Collapse,” Jared Diamond shows how societies
destroy themselves.
Issue of 2005-01-03
Posted 2004-12-27

A thousand years ago, a group of Vikings led by Erik
the Red set sail from Norway for the vast Arctic
landmass west of Scandinavia which came to be known as
Greenland. It was largely uninhabitable—a forbidding
expanse of snow and ice. But along the southwestern
coast there were two deep fjords protected from the
harsh winds and saltwater spray of the North Atlantic
Ocean, and as the Norse sailed upriver they saw grassy
slopes flowering with buttercups, dandelions, and
bluebells, and thick forests of willow and birch and
alder. Two colonies were formed, three hundred miles
apart, known as the Eastern and Western Settlements.
The Norse raised sheep, goats, and cattle. They turned
the grassy slopes into pastureland. They hunted seal
and caribou. They built a string of parish churches
and a magnificent cathedral, the remains of which are
still standing. They traded actively with mainland
Europe, and tithed regularly to the Roman Catholic
Church. The Norse colonies in Greenland were
law-abiding, economically viable, fully integrated
communities, numbering at their peak five thousand
people. They lasted for four hundred and fifty
years—and then they vanished.

The story of the Eastern and Western Settlements of
Greenland is told in Jared Diamond’s “Collapse: How
Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed” (Viking; $29.95).
Diamond teaches geography at U.C.L.A. and is well
known for his best-seller “Guns, Germs, and Steel,”
which won a Pulitzer Prize. In “Guns, Germs, and
Steel,” Diamond looked at environmental and structural
factors to explain why Western societies came to
dominate the world. In “Collapse,” he continues that
approach, only this time he looks at history’s
losers—like the Easter Islanders, the Anasazi of the
American Southwest, the Mayans, and the modern-day
Rwandans. We live in an era preoccupied with the way
that ideology and culture and politics and economics
help shape the course of history. But Diamond isn’t
particularly interested in any of those things—or, at
least, he’s interested in them only insofar as they
bear on what to him is the far more important
question, which is a society’s relationship to its
climate and geography and resources and neighbors.
“Collapse” is a book about the most prosaic elements
of the earth’s ecosystem—soil, trees, and
water—because societies fail, in Diamond’s view, when
they mismanage those environmental factors.

There was nothing wrong with the social organization
of the Greenland settlements. The Norse built a
functioning reproduction of the predominant
northern-European civic model of the time—devout,
structured, and reasonably orderly. In 1408, right
before the end, records from the Eastern Settlement
dutifully report that Thorstein Olafsson married
Sigrid Bjornsdotter in Hvalsey Church on September
14th of that year, with Brand Halldorstson, Thord
Jorundarson, Thorbjorn Bardarson, and Jon Jonsson as
witnesses, following the proclamation of the wedding
banns on three consecutive Sundays.

The problem with the settlements, Diamond argues, was
that the Norse thought that Greenland really was
green; they treated it as if it were the verdant
farmland of southern Norway. They cleared the land to
create meadows for their cows, and to grow hay to feed
their livestock through the long winter. They chopped
down the forests for fuel, and for the construction of
wooden objects. To make houses warm enough for the
winter, they built their homes out of six-foot-thick
slabs of turf, which meant that a typical home
consumed about ten acres of grassland.

But Greenland’s ecosystem was too fragile to withstand
that kind of pressure. The short, cool growing season
meant that plants developed slowly, which in turn
meant that topsoil layers were shallow and lacking in
soil constituents, like organic humus and clay, that
hold moisture and keep soil resilient in the face of
strong winds. “The sequence of soil erosion in
Greenland begins with cutting or burning the cover of
trees and shrubs, which are more effective at holding
soil than is grass,” he writes. “With the trees and
shrubs gone, livestock, especially sheep and goats,
graze down the grass, which regenerates only slowly in
Greenland’s climate. Once the grass cover is broken
and the soil is exposed, soil is carried away
especially by the strong winds, and also by pounding
from occasionally heavy rains, to the point where the
topsoil can be removed for a distance of miles from an
entire valley.” Without adequate pastureland, the
summer hay yields shrank; without adequate supplies of
hay, keeping livestock through the long winter got
harder. And, without adequate supplies of wood,
getting fuel for the winter became increasingly
difficult.

The Norse needed to reduce their reliance on
livestock—particularly cows, which consumed an
enormous amount of agricultural resources. But cows
were a sign of high status; to northern Europeans,
beef was a prized food. They needed to copy the Inuit
practice of burning seal blubber for heat and light in
the winter, and to learn from the Inuit the difficult
art of hunting ringed seals, which were the most
reliably plentiful source of food available in the
winter. But the Norse had contempt for the Inuit—they
called them skraelings, “wretches”—and preferred to
practice their own brand of European agriculture. In
the summer, when the Norse should have been sending
ships on lumber-gathering missions to Labrador, in
order to relieve the pressure on their own
forestlands, they instead sent boats and men to the
coast to hunt for walrus. Walrus tusks, after all, had
great trade value. In return for those tusks, the
Norse were able to acquire, among other things, church
bells, stained-glass windows, bronze candlesticks,
Communion wine, linen, silk, silver, churchmen’s
robes, and jewelry to adorn their massive cathedral at
Gardar, with its three-ton sandstone building blocks
and eighty-foot bell tower. In the end, the Norse
starved to death.

Diamond’s argument stands in sharp contrast to the
conventional explanations for a society’s collapse.
Usually, we look for some kind of cataclysmic event.
The aboriginal civilization of the Americas was
decimated by the sudden arrival of smallpox. European
Jewry was destroyed by Nazism. Similarly, the
disappearance of the Norse settlements is usually
blamed on the Little Ice Age, which descended on
Greenland in the early fourteen-hundreds, ending
several centuries of relative warmth. (One
archeologist refers to this as the “It got too cold,
and they died” argument.) What all these explanations
have in common is the idea that civilizations are
destroyed by forces outside their control, by acts of
God.

But look, Diamond says, at Easter Island. Once, it was
home to a thriving culture that produced the enormous
stone statues that continue to inspire awe. It was
home to dozens of species of trees, which created and
protected an ecosystem fertile enough to support as
many as thirty thousand people. Today, it’s a barren
and largely empty outcropping of volcanic rock. What
happened? Did a rare plant virus wipe out the island’s
forest cover? Not at all. The Easter Islanders chopped
their trees down, one by one, until they were all
gone. “I have often asked myself, ‘What did the Easter
Islander who cut down the last palm tree say while he
was doing it?’” Diamond writes, and that, of course,
is what is so troubling about the conclusions of
“Collapse.” Those trees were felled by rational
actors—who must have suspected that the destruction of
this resource would result in the destruction of their
civilization. The lesson of “Collapse” is that
societies, as often as not, aren’t murdered. They
commit suicide: they slit their wrists and then, in
the course of many decades, stand by passively and
watch themselves bleed to death.

This doesn’t mean that acts of God don’t play a role.
It did get colder in Greenland in the early
fourteen-hundreds. But it didn’t get so cold that the
island became uninhabitable. The Inuit survived long
after the Norse died out, and the Norse had all kinds
of advantages, including a more diverse food supply,
iron tools, and ready access to Europe. The problem
was that the Norse simply couldn’t adapt to the
country’s changing environmental conditions. Diamond
writes, for instance, of the fact that nobody can find
fish remains in Norse archeological sites. One
scientist sifted through tons of debris from the
Vatnahverfi farm and found only three fish bones;
another researcher analyzed thirty-five thousand bones
from the garbage of another Norse farm and found two
fish bones. How can this be? Greenland is a
fisherman’s dream: Diamond describes running into a
Danish tourist in Greenland who had just caught two
Arctic char in a shallow pool with her bare hands.
“Every archaeologist who comes to excavate in
Greenland . . . starts out with his or her own idea
about where all those missing fish bones might be
hiding,” he writes. “Could the Norse have strictly
confined their munching on fish to within a few feet
of the shoreline, at sites now underwater because of
land subsidence? Could they have faithfully saved all
their fish bones for fertilizer, fuel, or feeding to
cows?” It seems unlikely. There are no fish bones in
Norse archeological remains, Diamond concludes, for
the simple reason that the Norse didn’t eat fish. For
one reason or another, they had a cultural taboo
against it.

Given the difficulty that the Norse had in putting
food on the table, this was insane. Eating fish would
have substantially reduced the ecological demands of
the Norse settlements. The Norse would have needed
fewer livestock and less pastureland. Fishing is not
nearly as labor-intensive as raising cattle or hunting
caribou, so eating fish would have freed time and
energy for other activities. It would have diversified
their diet.

Why did the Norse choose not to eat fish? Because they
weren’t thinking about their biological survival. They
were thinking about their cultural survival. Food
taboos are one of the idiosyncrasies that define a
community. Not eating fish served the same function as
building lavish churches, and doggedly replicating the
untenable agricultural practices of their land of
origin. It was part of what it meant to be Norse, and
if you are going to establish a community in a harsh
and forbidding environment all those little
idiosyncrasies which define and cement a culture are
of paramount importance. “The Norse were undone by the
same social glue that had enabled them to master
Greenland’s difficulties,” Diamond writes. “The values
to which people cling most stubbornly under
inappropriate conditions are those values that were
previously the source of their greatest triumphs over
adversity.” He goes on:

To us in our secular modern society, the predicament
in which the Greenlanders found themselves is
difficult to fathom. To them, however, concerned with
their social survival as much as their biological
survival, it was out of the question to invest less in
churches, to imitate or intermarry with the Inuit, and
thereby to face an eternity in Hell just in order to
survive another winter on Earth.


Diamond’s distinction between social and biological
survival is a critical one, because too often we blur
the two, or assume that biological survival is
contingent on the strength of our civilizational
values. That was the lesson taken from the two world
wars and the nuclear age that followed: we would
survive as a species only if we learned to get along
and resolve our disputes peacefully. The fact is,
though, that we can be law-abiding and peace-loving
and tolerant and inventive and committed to freedom
and true to our own values and still behave in ways
that are biologically suicidal. The two kinds of
survival are separate.

Diamond points out that the Easter Islanders did not
practice, so far as we know, a uniquely pathological
version of South Pacific culture. Other societies, on
other islands in the Hawaiian archipelago, chopped
down trees and farmed and raised livestock just as the
Easter Islanders did. What doomed the Easter Islanders
was the interaction between what they did and where
they were. Diamond and a colleague, Barry Rollet,
identified nine physical factors that contributed to
the likelihood of deforestation—including latitude,
average rainfall, aerial-ash fallout, proximity to
Central Asia’s dust plume, size, and so on—and Easter
Island ranked at the high-risk end of nearly every
variable. “The reason for Easter’s unusually severe
degree of deforestation isn’t that those seemingly
nice people really were unusually bad or improvident,”
he concludes. “Instead, they had the misfortune to be
living in one of the most fragile environments, at the
highest risk for deforestation, of any Pacific
people.” The problem wasn’t the Easter Islanders. It
was Easter Island.

In the second half of “Collapse,” Diamond turns his
attention to modern examples, and one of his case
studies is the recent genocide in Rwanda. What
happened in Rwanda is commonly described as an ethnic
struggle between the majority Hutu and the
historically dominant, wealthier Tutsi, and it is
understood in those terms because that is how we have
come to explain much of modern conflict: Serb and
Croat, Jew and Arab, Muslim and Christian. The world
is a cauldron of cultural antagonism. It’s an
explanation that clearly exasperates Diamond. The Hutu
didn’t just kill the Tutsi, he points out. The Hutu
also killed other Hutu. Why? Look at the land: steep
hills farmed right up to the crests, without any
protective terracing; rivers thick with mud from
erosion; extreme deforestation leading to irregular
rainfall and famine; staggeringly high population
densities; the exhaustion of the topsoil; falling
per-capita food production. This was a society on the
brink of ecological disaster, and if there is anything
that is clear from the study of such societies it is
that they inevitably descend into genocidal chaos. In
“Collapse,” Diamond quite convincingly defends himself
against the charge of environmental determinism. His
discussions are always nuanced, and he gives political
and ideological factors their due. The real issue is
how, in coming to terms with the uncertainties and
hostilities of the world, the rest of us have turned
ourselves into cultural determinists.

For the past thirty years, Oregon has had one of the
strictest sets of land-use regulations in the nation,
requiring new development to be clustered in and
around existing urban development. The laws meant that
Oregon has done perhaps the best job in the nation in
limiting suburban sprawl, and protecting coastal lands
and estuaries. But this November Oregon’s voters
passed a ballot referendum, known as Measure 37, that
rolled back many of those protections. Specifically,
Measure 37 said that anyone who could show that the
value of his land was affected by regulations
implemented since its purchase was entitled to
compensation from the state. If the state declined to
pay, the property owner would be exempted from the
regulations.

To call Measure 37—and similar referendums that have
been passed recently in other states—intellectually
incoherent is to put it mildly. It might be that the
reason your hundred-acre farm on a pristine hillside
is worth millions to a developer is that it’s on a
pristine hillside: if everyone on that hillside could
subdivide, and sell out to Target and Wal-Mart, then
nobody’s plot would be worth millions anymore. Will
the voters of Oregon then pass Measure 38, allowing
them to sue the state for compensation over damage to
property values caused by Measure 37?

It is hard to read “Collapse,” though, and not have an
additional reaction to Measure 37. Supporters of the
law spoke entirely in the language of political
ideology. To them, the measure was a defense of
property rights, preventing the state from
unconstitutional “takings.” If you replaced the term
“property rights” with “First Amendment rights,” this
would have been indistinguishable from an argument
over, say, whether charitable groups ought to be able
to canvass in malls, or whether cities can control the
advertising they sell on the sides of public buses. As
a society, we do a very good job with these kinds of
debates: we give everyone a hearing, and pass laws,
and make compromises, and square our conclusions with
our constitutional heritage—and in the Oregon debate
the quality of the theoretical argument was
impressively high.

The thing that got lost in the debate, however, was
the land. In a rapidly growing state like Oregon,
what, precisely, are the state’s ecological strengths
and vulnerabilities? What impact will changed land-use
priorities have on water and soil and cropland and
forest? One can imagine Diamond writing about the
Measure 37 debate, and he wouldn’t be very impressed
by how seriously Oregonians wrestled with the problem
of squaring their land-use rules with their values,
because to him a society’s environmental birthright is
not best discussed in those terms. Rivers and streams
and forests and soil are a biological resource. They
are a tangible, finite thing, and societies collapse
when they get so consumed with addressing the fine
points of their history and culture and deeply held
beliefs—with making sure that Thorstein Olafsson and
Sigrid Bjornsdotter are married before the right
number of witnesses following the announcement of
wedding banns on the right number of Sundays—that they
forget that the pastureland is shrinking and the
forest cover is gone.

When archeologists looked through the ruins of the
Western Settlement, they found plenty of the big
wooden objects that were so valuable in
Greenland—crucifixes, bowls, furniture, doors, roof
timbers—which meant that the end came too quickly for
anyone to do any scavenging. And, when the
archeologists looked at the animal bones left in the
debris, they found the bones of newborn calves,
meaning that the Norse, in that final winter, had
given up on the future. They found toe bones from
cows, equal to the number of cow spaces in the barn,
meaning that the Norse ate their cattle down to the
hoofs, and they found the bones of dogs covered with
knife marks, meaning that, in the end, they had to eat
their pets. But not fish bones, of course. Right up
until they starved to death, the Norse never lost
sight of what they stood for.
