Remember that xtian 5th grade teacher in 2004 in Cupertino?
 -- the one who thought he had the right to shove xtianity down the throats of his students.
 
Here's one of his assignments from April, 2004.  No wonder many parents were upset.  I wish I had this before I went on Hannity & Colmes.
 
.jpg
http://www.eriposte.com/philosophy/fundamentalism/StevenWilliams_Easter_assignment.jpg
 
text
http://lists.ucla.edu/pipermail/religionlaw/2004-December/017600.html
 
If you're really interested, here's a final synopsis on the case: http://www.eriposte.com/philosophy/fundamentalism/stevenscreek.htm
 
BTW, I could find no direct Google reference to the John Adams quote -- only xtians quoting him without reference.  There's also no evidence that he wrote the book referenced.  Below are some real quotes of his that I've collected (at http://www.godlessgeeks.com/LINKS/Quotes.htm).  Based on these quotes, it's extremely dubious that the teacher's references to John Adams are true.  Why is it that xtians don't seem to mind lying if it furthers their faith?
 
 - Mark
 
"The divinity of Jesus is made a convenient cover for absurdity.  Nowhere in the Gospels do we find a precept for Creeds, Confessions, Oaths, Doctrines, and whole carloads of other foolish trumpery that we find in Christianity."
— John Adams 

"The question before the human race is, whether the God of nature shall govern the world by his own laws, or whether priests and kings shall rule it by fictitious miracles?"
— John Adams, letter to Thomas Jefferson 

"As I understand the Christian religion, it was, and is, a revelation.  But how has it happened that millions of fables, tales, legends, have been blended with both Jewish and Christian revelation that have made them the most bloody religion that ever existed?"
— John Adams, letter to F.A. Van der Kamp, Dec. 27, 1816 

"I almost shudder at the thought of alluding to the most fatal example of the abuses of grief which the history of mankind has preserved - the Cross.  Consider what calamities that engine of grief has produced!"
— John Adams, letter to Thomas Jefferson 

"What havoc has been made of books through every century of the Christian era? Where are fifty gospels, condemned as spurious by the bull of Pope Gelasius? Where are the forty wagon-loads of Hebrew manuscripts burned in France, by order of another pope, because suspected of heresy?  Remember the 'index expurgatorius', the inquisition, the stake, the axe, the halter and the guillotine."
— John Adams, letter to John Taylor 

"The priesthood have, in all ancient nations, nearly monopolized learning.  And ever since the Reformation, when or where has existed a Protestant or dissenting sect who would tolerate A FREE INQUIRY?  The blackest billingsgate, the most ungentlemanly insolence, the most yahooish brutality, is patiently endured, countenanced, propagated, and applauded.  But touch a solemn truth in collision with a dogma of a sect, though capable of the clearest proof, and you will find you have disturbed a nest, and the hornets will swarm about your eyes and hand, and fly into your face and eyes."
— John Adams, letter to John Taylor 

"This is my religion . . . joy and exaltation in my own existence . . . so go ahead and snarl . . . bite . . . howl, you Calvinistic divines and all you who say I am no Christian.  I say you are not Christian."
— John Adams, Toward the Mystery 

"[In regard to the Trinity]; "Tom, had you and I been 40 days with Moses, and beheld the great God, and even if God himself had tried to tell us that three was one . . . and one equals three, you and I would never have believed it.  We would never fall victims to such lies."
— John Adams, letter to Thomas Jefferson 

"Indeed, Mr. Jefferson, what could be invented to debase the ancient Christianism, which Greeks, Romans, Hebrews and Christian factions, above all the Catholics, have not fraudulently imposed upon the public?  Miracles after miracles have rolled down in torrents, wave succeeding wave in the Catholic church, from the Council of Nicea, and long before, to this day."
— John Adams, to Jefferson, 3 December 1813] 

"The United States of America have exhibited, perhaps, the first example of governments erected on the simple principles of nature; and if men are now sufficiently enlightened to disabuse themselves of artifice, imposture, hypocrisy, and superstition, they will consider this event as an era in their history.  Although the detail of the formation of the American governments is at present little known or regarded either in Europe or in America, it may hereafter become an object of curiosity.  It will never be pretended that any persons employed in that service had interviews with the gods, or were in any degree under the influence of Heaven, more than those at work upon ships or houses, or laboring in merchandise or agriculture; it will forever be acknowledged that these governments were contrived merely by the use of reason and the senses...."
— John Adams, A Defense of the Constitutions of Government of the United States of America; from Adrienne Koch, ed., The American Enlightenment: The Shaping of the American Experiment and a Free Society, p. 258 

"Nothing is more dreaded than the national government meddling with religion."
— John Adams 

"The United States of America governments have exhibited, perhaps, the first example of governments erected on the simple principles of nature.  It will never be pretended that any persons employed in that service had interviews with the gods, or were in any degree under the influence of Heaven, more than those at work upon ships or houses, or laboring in merchandise or agriculture; it will forever be acknowledged that these governments were contrived merely by the use of reason and the senses."
— John Adams
