Mark, this is awsome! 
 
I would say that David Gold is a button pusher and a panderer to his own ilk. I've listened to him many times debate liberals and he usually gets squashed. I don't think he ever admits it though or even knows it. 
 
I have to give him credit for consistently bringing on guests that oppose him though. One thing i'd suggest is to keep him on track cause he does sidestep when the opponent comes back with a cogent rebuttal. Repeat his contentions to him and them dismember them point by point. You know this material- he's going to bring up the same BS about the founding fathers, the references to god in the constitution, and "what does it hurt anybody to have the word 'god' in the pledge" etc. Ask him pointed questions that he probably hasn't given much thought to and you'll get the upper hand. Gold is all about polemical one-upmanship so don't be shy about exposing his tactics when you sense he's using them.
 
He'll often dispense broad generalizations and ad-hominim dismissals. Call him on it! He looks real dumb when his sophistry is exposed. I don't think he's a christian fundie but he has had people like Jonathan Wells (evolution is bunk) on his show. Keep in mind that he's not as strong on logical argumentation (though he enjoys it) but he has a really strong recall for dates, factoids, and just about anything in the news, past and present. It would lend you credibility to acknowledge that. And finally remember that after you are off the air, he will spend the next hour twisting your arguments, overlooking your most salient points, labeling you as a "liberal" and so forth. He's a coward. If we can put the word out to our people that you are going to be on the show then hopefully some of us can call in afterward and take your side in your absence. Oh, and be sure to plug ASV!
 
Go for it! 
 
Todd


-----Original Message----- 
From: Mark Thomas 
Sent: Mar 26, 2004 9:37 AM 
To: dksf@atheists.org, David.G.Fitzgerald@marsh.com, ej@atheists.org, Jimhpac@aol.com, blairscott@knology.net, ASVadmin@yahoogroups.com, dbarker@ffrf.org 
Subject: [ASVadmin] FW: on air interview ksfo 560 

godless friends,

Wow!  It's an invite to take part in a radio segment discussing our current 
favorite subject.  This will be my first time for such an activity.  Do you 
have any suggestions, insights, or tips?

Thanks,
Mark


----Original Message Follows----
From: "Hall, Harry S" <Harry.S.Hall@abc.com>
To: <m_w_thomas@hotmail.com>
Subject: on air interview ksfo 560
Date: Fri, 26 Mar 2004 08:59:22 -0800



Hi Mark,

i'm Harry Hall the producer of the David Gold Show a conservative talk show 
on KSFO airing Saturday and Sunday  from 1 pm to 4 pm here in the Bay Area. 
We are interested in having you do an on air segment with the host via 
telephone interview this Sunday to discuss your views concerning the word 
"God" in the pledge. If you are interested please leave me a message with a 
contact number at 415.954.8653 and i will call you and prepare you for the 
show. We interview in the 2 pm hour and they run from 20 minutes to the 
whole hour. Please consider coming on the show.


thanks,
Harry Hall
