http://www.top-greetings.com/A.py?R=20030221,0RLY

Today's useless fact - What's the story about the dead pope who 
was dug up and put on trial?

Ah, yes, the Cadaveric Synod. During the latter part of the ninth 
century, Pope Formosus made a number of enemies in the various 
palace intrigues that surrounded the popes of the time. After his 
death, one of his enemies was elected, Pope Stephen VI (VII).
He had really tried to put the past behind him, but months after 
becoming pope, Stephen still found himself brooding over the 
injustices that Formosus had subjected him to. He decided that it 
was never too late for justice to be served, so he ordered the 
late pope dug up from his grave, dressed in papal robes, and 
placed on trial for his sins.
Unfortunately, Formosus wasn't much of a conversationalist by 
then, and his aides argued that it was unfair that Formosus would 
not be able to defend himself. Stephen, being a fair man, agreed 
that they had a point, and so he came up with a solution. He had 
a junior deacon crouch behind the corpse and answer the charges 
as if he were the dead pope. According to Richard Zacks in "An 
Underground Education", at one point in the trial, "Pope Stephen-
a disturbed young man-glowered at the rotting corpse, the 
skeletal caricature of a pontiff, and shouted: 'Why did you usurp 
this See of the Apostle?' A teenage deacon, crouched nearby, 
replied: 'Because I was evil.'"
John Dollison wrote in "Pope-Pourri" that the young deacon 
actually mounted a fairly credible defense. Even so, the cadaver 
was found guilty on all counts. "Stephen declared all of 
Formosus's papal acts null and void. He then chopped off the 
three fingers on the corpse's right hand used to give blessings; 
then he had the body stripped naked and dumped in a cemetery for 
foreigners. A few days later he had the corpse dug up and
flung into the Tiber River, where a hermit fished it out and gave 
it a proper burial."
Stephen VI was tossed into prison not long after and was 
strangled there. For the next decade or so, popes held synod 
after synod-some renouncing Stephen's gruesome sentence, and some 
reinstating it. Finally Pope John IX put an end to the issue with 
a decree that all trials of dead people were officially 
prohibited, especially those of popes.

~source used: "Just Cusrious About History, Jeeves"
by Erin Barrett and Jack Mingo
