Thanks for going up against these two emotion-yanking, lying (Comfort) limited thinkers.  I think that you did a great job and showed that their arguments failed.  I also think that you can do an even better job the next time that you deal with the two big "scientific" ideas and the argument from morality that Comfort put forth.  It's also important to show how they cherry-picked verses from the buybull.  Without your putting up strong arguments showing alternatives to Comfort's ideas, people are less likely to grasp why those ideas are so utterly false.  Here are some points that I use:

First, it's critical to note that just because we may not understand something completely does not mean that some god is doing it -- just like no god was causing lightning before we understood it.


Argument from Design
  When I deal with this, I first like to admit that the world looks like it was designed.  Of course, the sun also looks like it goes around the Earth every day.  It is only through science that we have the scientific theory that the Earth rotates and goes around the sun (albeit with extensive evidence).  It is also through science that we understand how the process of evolution has created life with its apparent design (also with extensive evidence).  For more, see
http://www.godlessgeeks.com/WhyAtheism.htm#evolution  I especially like
http://www.godlessgeeks.com/LINKS/CommonDescent.htm


Argument from First Cause
  With a combination of the two areas of physics that Einstein started, relativity and quantum mechanics, we are very close to an explanation of how our universe started (with no god necessary).  The physicist and cosmologist Alan Guth of MIT has put forth the scientific theory, called Inflation, that the Big Bang was just the result of a random quantum event called a vacuum fluctuation — with no cause, created out of the space vacuum, and with a total energy of zero.  Even tho this doesn’t make sense in the Newtonian physics of our experience of the world, it does make sense in quantum mechanics and general relativity.  In relativity, gravity is negative energy and matter is positive energy.  Because the two seem to be equal in absolute total value, our universe appears balanced to the sum of zero.  Our universe could thus have come into existence without violating conservation of mass and energy.  There is also excellent experimental and theoretical evidence to support Inflation Theory.  Our current math and capabilities in physics allow us to test this to approximately a billionth of a billionth of a billionth of a billionth of a second after the Big Bang.  For more, see
http://www.godlessgeeks.com/WhyAtheism.htm#BigBang


Argument from Morality
  Humans need to cooperate and love, in order to survive -- especially in our tribal past.  Couples need to love to stay together, and they need to love their children in order to put so much effort into raising them.  Tribes need to cooperate in order to survive.  Young children without adults will die.  Humans outside of a tribe have a low probability of survival.  We are thus descended from people who loved and cooperated.  Humans who didn't were much less likely to leave offspring, or even survive.  Evolution has thus sculpted us to cooperate and love.  For more, see the "Argument from Morality" section in my article.

Also, it's great to show how Yahweh completely fails his own morality -- lies, rapes, pregnant women sliced open, slaughters, and other mass killings, all condoned or done by Yahweh.


Verses from the buybull
As you know, it's mainly a bunch of crap -- intermixed with a few good ideas.  I've collected some of the crap at http://www.godlessgeeks.com/LINKS/BibleQuotes.htm


Again, thanks for all the effort that went into the debate, and for standing up for reason and rationality.

At least you didn't have to contend with Comfort's banana!

All the best,
Mark Thomas
