Easter
  
 Easter is a moveable feast, meaning it is not fixed in relation to the 
civil calendar. The First Council of Nicaea (325) established the date 
of Easter as the first Sunday after the full moon (the Paschal Full Moon) following the March equinox.
  
 Ecclesiastically, the equinox is reckoned to be on 21 March (although 
the astronomical equinox occurs on 20 March in most years), and the 
"Full Moon" is not necessarily on the astronomically correct date. The 
date of Easter therefore varies from 22 March to 25 April inclusive. Eastern Christianity bases its calculations on the Julian 
calendar, whose 21 March corresponds, during the 21st century, to 3 
April in the Gregorian calendar, and in which therefore the celebration 
of Easter varies between 4 April and 8 May.
  
 In 725, Bede succinctly wrote, "The Sunday following the full Moon which falls on or after the equinox will give 
the lawful Easter." However, this does not reflect the actual 
ecclesiastical rules precisely. One reason for this is that the full 
moon involved (called the Paschal full moon) is not an astronomical full moon, but the 14th day of a calendar lunar month. Another difference is that the astronomical equinox is a natural astronomical phenomenon, 
which can fall on 19, 20 March, or 21, while the ecclesiastical date is 
fixed by convention on 21 March.
  
 In applying the ecclesiastical rules, Christian churches use 21 March as
 the starting point in determining the date of Easter, from which they 
find the next full moon, etc. The Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox
 Churches continue to use the Julian calendar. Their starting point in 
determining the date of Orthodox Easter is also 21 March, but according 
to the Julian reckoning, which currently corresponds to 3 April in the 
Gregorian calendar.
  
 In addition, the lunar tables of the Julian calendar are four days 
(sometimes five days) behind those of the Gregorian calendar. The 14th 
day of the lunar month according to the Gregorian system is only the 
ninth or tenth day according to the Julian. The result of this 
combination of solar and lunar discrepancies is divergence in the date 
of Easter in most years (see table).
  
 Easter is determined on the basis of lunisolar cycles. The lunar year 
consists of 30-day and 29-day lunar months, generally alternating, with 
an embolismic month added periodically to bring the lunar cycle into 
line with the solar cycle. In each solar year (1 January to 31 December inclusive), the lunar month beginning with an ecclesiastical new moon 
falling in the 29-day period from 8 March to 5 April inclusive is 
designated as the paschal lunar month for that year.
  
 Easter is the third Sunday in the paschal lunar month, or, in other words, the Sunday after the paschal lunar month's 14th day. The 14th of the paschal lunar month is designated by convention as the Paschal full moon, although 
the 14th of the lunar month may differ from the date of the astronomical full moon by up to two days. Since the ecclesiastical new moon falls on a date from 8 March to 5 April inclusive, the paschal full moon (the 
14th of that lunar month) must fall on a date from 21 March to 18 April inclusive.
  
 The Gregorian calculation of Easter was based on a method devised by the
 Calabrian doctor Aloysius Lilius (or Lilio) for adjusting the epacts of
 the moon, and has been adopted by almost all Western Christians and by 
Western countries who celebrate national holidays at Easter. For the 
British Empire and colonies, a determination of the date of Easter Sunday usingGolden Numbers and Sunday letters was defined by the Calendar (New Style) Act 1750 with its 
Annexe. This was designed to exactly match the Gregorian calculation.
  
 Controversy arose when Victor, bishop of Rome a generation after 
Anicetus, attempted to excommunicate Polycrates of Ephesus and all other
 bishops of Asia for their Quartodecimanism. According to Eusebius, a 
number of synods were convened to deal with the controversy, which he 
regarded as all ruling in support of Easter on Sunday. Polycrates (circa 190), however, wrote to Victor defending the 
antiquity of Asian Quartodecimanism. Victor's attempted excommunication 
was apparently rescinded and the two sides reconciled upon the 
intervention of bishop Irenaeusand others, who reminded Victor of the 
tolerant precedent of Anicetus.
  
 Quartodecimanism seems to have lingered into the 4th century, when 
Socrates of Constantinople recorded that some Quartodecimans were 
deprived of their churches by John Chrysostom and that some were 
harassed by Nestorius.
  
 It is not known how long the Nisan 14 practice continued. But both those
 who followed the Nisan 14 custom, and those who set Easter to the 
following Sunday had in common the custom of consulting their Jewish neighbors to learn 
when the month of Nisan would fall, and setting their festival 
accordingly. By the later 3rd century, however, some Christians began to express dissatisfaction with the custom of relying on the Jewish 
community to determine the date of Easter. The chief complaint was that 
the Jewish communities sometimes erred in setting Passover to fall 
before the Northern Hemisphere spring equinox. The Sardica paschal table confirms these complaints, for it indicates that the Jews of some 
eastern Mediterranean city (possibly Antioch) fixed Nisan 14 on dates 
well before the spring equinox on multiple occasions.
  
 Because of this dissatisfaction with reliance on the Jewish calendar, 
some Christians began to experiment with independent computations. 
Others, however, felt that the customary practice of consulting Jews 
should continue, even if the Jewish computations were in error.
  
 Read about more complications at 
 
 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Easter 