Editors of San Jose Mercury News,

Please consider this letter to the editor, regarding evolution.

There have been several recent letters that were dismissive about evolution.  Evolution is both a fact and a theory.  It’s a fact that enormous changes to life on Earth have occurred.  The fossil record is clear and unambiguous on this.  The theory of evolution explains the processes that caused these changes.  The evidence for evolution of life is overwhelming and conclusive.  This evidence is not just in the fossils, but also in the body parts and genes of every living thing.

Many people say that evolution is “only a theory.”  It’s important to remember that the term “theory” in science is not the same as it is in general usage.  Basically, a scientific theory is a unifying concept that explains a large body of data.  The theory of evolution has as much validity as the theory of gravity, atomic theory, or the germ theory of disease.


>>>>> re-written <<<<<

Evolution is both a fact and a theory.  "Evolution" simply means change over time.  It’s a fact that enormous changes to life on Earth have occurred.  The evidence for evolution of life is overwhelming and conclusive; the fossil record is clear and unambiguous on this.  Evidence is not just in the fossils, but also in the body parts and genes of almost every living thing.  The Theory of Evolution explains the processes that caused these changes.

Many people say that evolution is “only a theory.”  It’s important to remember that the term “theory” in science is not the same as it is in general usage.  Basically, a scientific theory is a unifying concept that explains a large body of data.  The Theory of Evolution has as much validity as the theory of gravity, atomic theory, or the germ theory of disease.

Sincerely,
Mark Thomas, president, Atheists of Silicon Valley, http://www.godlessgeeks.com
472 Lotus Lane
Mountain View, CA  94043

m_w_thomas@sbcglobal.net
h: (650) 969-5314 (day and night)
c: (650) 906-1095 (weekends)


=====


As we know, all scientific theories are tentative - pending possible future
falsifying data.  However, I think that we can say that the Theory of
Evolution is about as close to "fact" as scientific theories can get.  In
many ways, we know more about the Theory of Evolution than the Theory of
Gravity.

I never wrote that the Theory of Evolution is a fact.  I only wrote that the
evidence shows that change has occurred; THAT is a fact.  Change over time
is also called "evolution."  I think that people often get the facts and the
theories that explain those facts confused.  See "Evolution as Fact and
Theory" by Stephen Jay Gould.
http://www.stephenjaygould.org/library/gould_fact-and-theory.html

Cheers,
Mark

"Damn gravity!"
 - Homer Simpson, after falling out of bed

