evolution, abiogenesis, cosmology (Big Bang), deep time, (Africa, South America, & continental drift) 
biblical truth,
Christians who back the teaching of evolution
book suggestions

 sufficient, repeatable, falsifiable evidence


A Brief History of Explanations

As sentient beings, humans have always asked, "Why did a particular event happen?" and "What caused the world to be the way it is?"






Many people of Christian and other faiths accept evolution as the scientific explanation for biodiversity.

The contemporary theory of biological evolution is one of the most
robust products of scientific inquiry. It is the foundation for
research in many areas of biology as well as an essential element of
science education.

Science is a particular way of knowing about the world. In science, explanations are limited to those based on observations and experiments that can be substantiated by other scientists. Explanations that cannot be based on empirical evidence are not a part of science.

Terms Used in Describing the Nature of Science (1)

Fact: In science, an observation that has been repeatedly confirmed and for all practical purposes is accepted as "true." Truth in science, however, is never final, and what is accepted as a fact today may be modified or even discarded tomorrow.

Hypothesis: A tentative statement about the natural world leading to deductions that can be tested. If the deductions are verified, the hypothesis is provisionally corroborated. If the deductions are incorrect, the original hypothesis is proved false and must be abandoned or modified. Hypotheses can be used to build more complex inferences and explanations. 

Law: A descriptive generalization about how some aspect of the natural world behaves under stated circumstances.

Theory: In science, a well-substantiated explanation of some aspect of the natural world that can incorporate facts, laws, inferences, and tested hypotheses. 
The contention that evolution should be taught as a "theory, not as a fact" confuses the common use of these words with the scientific use. In science, theories do not turn into facts through the accumulation of evidence. Rather, theories are the end points of science. They are understandings that develop from extensive observation, experimentation, and creative reflection. They incorporate a large body of scientific facts, laws, tested hypotheses, and logical inferences. In this sense, evolution is one of the strongest and most useful scientific theories we have. 


(1) Adapted from Teaching About Evolution and the Nature of Science by the National Academy of Sciences (Washington, D.C.: National Academy Press, 1998). 

 



Theory: In science, a well-substantiated explanation of some aspect of the natural world that can incorporate facts, laws, inferences, and tested hypotheses.



