Many fundamentalists work to raise leaders and followers who will bring about political change and build a society ruled by an ideology not conducive to democracy. Equally troublesome, some fundamentalists intend to raise an army of puppets who will kill—and even die—for their predetermined cause.

In fact, President George W. Bush has called for more of what contributed to the atrocity of 9/11 in the first place — the
intrusion of religion into government.

When Christians Terry Nichols and Timothy McVeigh bombed the Alfred P. Murrah Building in Oklahoma City, it was in retaliation of the government invasion of the Waco Branch Davidians, a Christian sect and the shooting deaths of the white supremacist Weaver family at Ruby Ridge, followers of the Christian Identity faith.  McVeigh and Nichols engaged in Christian terrorism.

It would be unjust to place all fundamentalists in the same category as terrorists. Yet, there is undoubtedly a strong relationship between fundamentalism and violence.

Fundamentalist children, especially girls, are at risk for lower educational attainment.  They are also at higher risk for incest.

Lack of reproductive choice, educational and career opportunities, spousal abuse, rape, sexual and mental disorders, and welfare dependency are all highly related to Christian fundamentalism.

There is a strong relationship between fundamentalism and prejudice. This leads to discrimination, intolerance, and hate crimes often directed at gays, other races or religions, and women. Also problematic is the Christian Right’s blocking of legislation that would otherwise give people options to reduce or end their pain and suffering. It opposes medicinal marijuana for the terminally ill and calls for prosecuting doctors who euthanize terminally ill patients at the patients’ requests.

In addition, fundamentalists misinterpret the United States Constitution, most specifically the First Amendment and its Separation Clause, and they rewrite history to fit their Christian Nation theme.

“The religious right has become a particularly important interest group in shaping public opinion.” The Christian Right accomplishes this in several ways. In addition to its ownership of many media outlets, Christian organizations and denominations such as the Southern Baptist Convention and Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights have come to be known for their control of the media. They threaten lawsuits and public embarrassment and participate in letter writing campaigns. In addition, they boycott companies that sponsor programs or publications to which the Christian Right is opposed. Through such actions they are able to silence negative publicity and most programming critical of religion or in direct conflict with their views.

The Christian Right & Church of Scientology are attempting to have legislation passed that would limit treatment of AD/HD.  They want to ignore the possibilities of chemistry influencing behavior, preferring the "spare the rod, spoil the child" mentality.  This would also cause public schools to have more problem children -- increasing their apparent failures.

The Christian Right wants to privatize schools, employ a school voucher system, and to create a free market where businesses operate completely free from government regulation with no protections for public interest or the national economy.


Intelligent design is a Trojan Horse for bringing religious creationism back into public school science classes.  Christian "stealth" candidates on school boards have pushed for I.D.

Christianity has a vested interest in human misery.  Christianity, perhaps more than any religion before or since, capitalized on human suffering; and it was enormously successful in insuring its own existence through the perpetuation of human suffering.

