THE FUNDAMENTALS OF EXTREMISM
The Christian Right in America
Edited by Kimberly Blaker
New Boston Books, Inc.
Michigan
No part of this publication may be reproduced in whole or in part, stored in or
introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any
means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without
the prior written permission of both copyright owner(s) and the above
publisher of this book.
Copyright © 2003 by New Boston Books Inc.
All rights reserved
This edition published by New Boston Books, Inc.,
P.O. Box 195, New Boston, Michigan 48164
Printed and bound in the United States
Cover design by George Foster
Permissions acknowledgments for previously published
material can be found on pages 271.
Library of Congress Control Number: 2002095474
The Fundamentals of Extremism: the Christian Right in America
1. Fundamentalism—Controversial literature. I. Title.
2. Christianity—Controversial literature.
2. Christianity and politics.
3. Conservatism—United States—Controversial literature.
4. Evangelism—United States—Controversial literature.
5. Women—United States—Social Conditions.
6. Family Violence
7. Child Abuse
BR526.B 261.8
ISBN: 0-9725496-0-9 (Cloth)
ISBN: 0-9725496-1-7 (Paper)
To Cassandra and Caleb,
For your patience and understanding.
May you grow to possess
The liberties we hold and treasure today,
In a democracy that is flexible yet strong,
With the freedom to believe
In many gods
Or none at all
And to live according to the dictates
Of your own conscience.
To Donnie,
For your support and encouragement
And for believing in me,
In every endeavor I pursue
Contents
Foreword 5
by John M. Swomley
Acknowledgments 6
1. Introduction: The Perils of Fundamentalism and the
Imperilment of Democracy 7
by Kimberly Blaker
2. The Gathering Storm 25
by Edwin F. Kagin
3. Little Ones to Him Belong 48
by Bobbie Kirkhart
4. Eternal Subservience—Created from Man for Man 77
by Kimberly Blaker
5. The Social Implications of Armageddon 114
by Kimberly Blaker
6. The Path to Theocracy—the Purgation of the First
Amendment 154
by John M. Suarez
7. Inerrancy turned Political 174
by Herb Silverman
8. Winning the ‘Battle Royal’—Parallels and Solutions
to the Growing Danger 209
by Edward M. Buckner
Notes 242
Permissions Acknowledgments 271
Suggestions for Further Reading 272
Index 274
Contributors 286
5
Foreword
Finally, here is a well-documented book about the dangers of
Christian fundamentalism, both Protestant and Catholic. Mind control,
including a strong relationship between fundamentalism and prejudice,
discrimination, intolerance, and hate crimes are exposed with fact and
credible evidence. Women, especially, suffer not only in fundamentalist
homes, but also from the political results of fundamentalism.
Kimberly Blaker’s book demonstrates not only the relationship
between fundamentalism and far-right organizations—such as Dobson’s
Focus on the Family, and those of Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson—it also
reveals the funding by right-wing foundations and their corporate sponsors.
It is not surprising that religious fundamentalists support private school
vouchers and home schooling rather than public schools where students
are taught to think for themselves.
This book also demonstrates the opposition of fundamentalism to sex
education in the schools and the consequent result that teen pregnancy is
higher in the United States than six other developed countries.
In fact, this is the most careful and devastating evaluation of the
impact of fundamentalism on American society, politics, and customs ever
produced in the United States.
Although Kimberly Blaker, a woman, is the chief author and creator
of this exploration of the perils of fundamentalism, she has wisely included
chapters from several men, including a medical doctor, who reinforce with
their own research the basic thesis and ideas she has advanced so well.
I have seldom, if ever, reviewed a book so cogent, factually accurate,
and enlightening as this one. It opens a new vista of knowledge and insight
that will make a significant contribution to American parents, educators,
and thoughtful religious and humanist leaders.
John M. Swomley
Professor emeritus of Social Ethics, Saint Paul School of Theology
President of The Churchman Co., Inc.
Author of Religious Liberty and the Secular State
6
Acknowledgments
This book has come to fruition because many people worked together
to make it happen. It has been shaped not only by its authors, but also by
those who have so graciously lent their assistance and expertise. I offer
special thanks to all who have assisted. My coauthors Ed Buckner, Edwin
Kagin, Bobbie Kirkhart, Herb Silverman, and John Suarez have shared
both personal experiences and expertise in their chapters, shedding added
light to issues that affect us all.
I cannot begin to express my gratitude to Richard Dawkins, Gerald A.
Larue, John Shelby Spong, Nadine Strossen, and John M. Swomley, all of
who eagerly agreed to read my manuscript without prior familiarity with
me. Each of their wonderful endorsements to this book was a thrill I never
anticipated. Their kind advice was appreciated as well.
My cover designer, George Foster, has done an outstanding job and
given this book the cover it deserves. Jay Van Dyke has offered ongoing
assistance and advice, and has been a dream to work with. I want to thank
TeriLynn Hinkle for photographing me and making the most of a nonphotogenic
subject.
Much credit also goes to those who reviewed and critiqued the
manuscripts, offered editorial suggestions, assisted with documentation
and indexing, provided source materials, and/or provided interviews, all for
merely a “thank you.” For these services, we owe special thanks to Cassie
Blaker, Ken Bonnell, Diane Buckner, Jack Censer, Amanda Chesworth,
Larry Darby, Jan C. Fox, Sharon Fratepietro, Pat Harris, Jim Heldberg,
Dillard Henderson, Helen Kagin, Paul Kurtz, William Martin, Jon Nelson,
Paul O’Brien, Fran Prevas, Marjie C. Swomley, and Dr. Harvey Tippit.
Maxine Parshall deserves credit for reviewing the complete book and
offering extensive editing recommendations without compensation. I thank
Timothy Dillon for copyediting and ensuring our manuscript is as free
from error as possible.
Finally, I thank Margaret O’Kelley for allowing me the opportunity to
hone my writing skills as a reporter for The Huron River Weekly. I also
acknowledge the terrific impact my college instructors Timothy Dillon, Dr.
John Holladay, and Ann Orwin had on this project. Without their
outstanding teaching skills and high expectations, I never would have
come to realize my ability to attack this project and discover my love of
writing.
7
Chapter 1
Introduction:
THE PERILS OF FUNDAMENTALISM
AND THE IMPERILMENT OF DEMOCRACY
by Kimberly Blaker
Those who control what young people are taught, and what they
experience—what they see, hear, think, and believe—will determine the
future course for the nation.1
James Dobson
Who could say it better than Dr. James Dobson, former Professor of
Pediatrics and founder of Focus on the Family? He is known to Christian
conservatives as America’s foremost parenting authority and is the calm
voice parents across the country turn to daily on more than 2,000 radio
stations. From Dobson, they seek answers to questions regarding marriage,
relationships, and childrearing.
To others, Dobson is known for his strong web of ties to the Christian
Right. In fact, his ability to wield power over the Republican Party
suggests he is the Christian Right. Dobson, an evangelical, a patriarch, and
an advocate of corporal punishment is an opponent of reproductive choice,
homosexual rights, free speech, liberal sex education, and the right to die
with dignity. Yet, he has a remarkable ability to manipulate unsuspecting
Americans who otherwise might not agree with his views. His sly
maneuvering through the political arena unseen and unheard—except by
those whose chains he pulls—has been a key to his power and success.
Dobson’s pronouncement, however, which opens this work, is a revelation
into the evangelical and fundamentalist mentality. It displays a hunger for
mind control of youth, scarcely different from Pakistan and Afghanistan’s
Islamic fundamentalists.
8 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Many Pakistani children are raised in such a controlling environment.
Pakistani Muslim boys as young as six, mostly from poor families, are
often given over to madrasahs, or religious schools, where they spend their
youth learning an extreme form of Islam. In the madrasahs, boys are given
little opportunity to socialize, spending most of their first three years
memorizing the Qur’an in Arabic, a language they do not even understand.
They are taught no science or math, and the only history they will ever
learn is of the Muslim world. It is the graduates of these madrasahs who
“swell[ed] the ranks of the Taliban” in the mid-1990s.2 The Taliban
continues to gain adherents through the training of children, from an early
age, to think dogmatically—as do the Taliban leaders.
Similarly, Christian fundamentalists frequently home school their
children or send them to ultra-conservative Christian schools in an effort to
limit socialization that would otherwise open doors to critical thought. The
key concept of fundamentalist education is controlling what children learn.
As do those funding and running Pakistan’s madrasahs in preparation for
the Jihad, Dobson realizes, “If the salvation of our children is really that
vital to us, then our spiritual training should begin before children can even
comprehend what it is all about.”3 Dobson further reveals:
I firmly believe in acquainting children with God’s judgment and
wrath while they are young. Nowhere in the Bible are we
instructed to skip over the unpleasant scriptures in our teaching.
The wages of sin is death, and children have the right to
understand that fact.4
Christian fundamentalist schooling is known for indoctrinating
children through recitation and memorization of Bible verses and prayers,
reinforced with hellfire and brimstone lectures. Moreover, these children
are taught from textbooks that distort scientific and historic facts. As you
will learn in Chapter 3, these children learn only what neatly fits into the
myopic views of their parents and teachers. In math, they are taught only
mechanics and absolutes. New math that teaches problem solving skills is
abhorred because it reveals that everything is not black and white.
Fundamentalists know too well that children who learn to think on their
own may someday stray from their indoctrination. The ideology of
children in fundamentalist families is predetermined. Mind control,
therefore, is the mode by which fundamentalists, whether Christian,
Islamic, Jewish, or any other group, gain adherents. Authoritarian in
The Perils of Fundamentalism 9
nature, their interpretation of sacred texts calls on them to dominate society
and to “determine the future course for the nation,” as Dobson suggests. If
fundamentalists do not guard against children learning to think on their
own, they risk turning out adults who will choose a path inharmonious or
even opposed to their own. For many fundamentalists, this path is simple,
to serve God by bringing him loyal servants. However, a large proportion
works to raise leaders and followers who will bring about political change
and build a society ruled by an ideology not conducive to democracy.
Equally troublesome, some fundamentalists intend to raise an army of
puppets who will kill—and even die—for their predetermined cause.
America’s new war on terrorism, resulting from the staggering death
toll of the September 11, 2001 attacks, has made one thing clear. Those
who threaten our lives and security, even those who stand in the way of
capturing terrorists will be wiped out for the good of the world—that is,
providing they are neither Christian nor American. There has been a
disturbing double standard in the United States’ way of dealing with
extremist factions. The Bush administration’s objective to exterminate
terrorism abroad neglects to recognize and address the dangers we face
from within our own nation. In fact, President George W. Bush has called
for more of what contributed to such an atrocity in the first place—the
intrusion of religion into government.
America is not immune from breeding such extremism, as was seen
when Christians Terry Nichols and Timothy McVeigh bombed the Alfred
P. Murrah Building in Oklahoma City. Nichols and McVeigh were
influenced by the extremist Christian Identity movement. The bombing
was McVeigh’s way of speaking out against the government invasion of
the Waco Branch Davidians, a Christian sect. It was also in retaliation of
the shooting deaths of the white supremacist Weaver family at Ruby
Ridge, followers of the Christian Identity faith.
Terrorists of the Christian kind
It would be unjust to place all fundamentalists in the same category as
terrorists. Yet, there is undoubtedly a strong relationship between
fundamentalism and violence. And there are those who will stop at nothing
to reign terror and destruction on whomever they perceive as their
enemies. One such group, the small but radical Army of God, has targeted
abortion clinics and been involved in kidnappings, bombings, and shooting
deaths. According to many reports, they have even been linked to the 280
anthrax threats that hit abortion clinics in October following the September
10 The Fundamentals of Extremism
11, 2001 attacks.
The poisonous mentality of this group was demonstrated when Army
of God supporters met on January 21, 2001, in Bowie, Maryland, for its
fifth White Rose Banquet. “During the event, numerous speakers called
for violence against abortion clinics, approved of murdering abortion
providers, and made jokes about killing homosexuals,”5 reported Church
& State. Chuck Spingola complained, “Now, these people [gays] are vile
folks. . . . If you deal with these people long enough, you understand the
wisdom of God when he says they should be put to death.”6 Reverend
Michael Bray, who served a six-year sentence for his involvement in
abortion clinic bombings, was also awarded the title of “chaplain” during
the event.7
Catholic fundamentalists are no less extreme. Reverend David C.
Trosch wrote to Congress on July 16, 1994:
In the not too distant future, it is anticipated that we will be faced
with a civil war . . . It is murder to take human life at any time
following conception . . . a very bloody civil insurrection shall
begin . . . first shot was fired in Pensacola early this year . . . Dr.
Gunn was a practicing murderer . . . it took World War II to stop
the slaughter of millions of innocent people . . . God will hold
them [the faithful] accountable for not taking direct action to
prevent this evil . . . [When] the normal constraints of pacifism,
which pervades throughout this country, is overcome . . . the
killing, in protection of the innocent, will begin to spill over into
the killing of the police and military who attempt to protect them.
Thereafter, it will begin to affect those who direct them to protect
abortion providers. . . . American Civil Liberties Union will [be]
place[ed] high on the target list . . . . National Organization of [sic]
Women, members of Planned Parenthood and other proabortion/
choice organizations . . . terminated as vermin are
terminated . . . Participation in the destruction of evil would soon
become understood as a meritorious action, as a prerequisite for
entrance into eternal life . . . hoped that this will be sufficient for
the Congress of the United States to reverse [US Supreme Court
decisions] ‘Roe vs. Wade’ [sic] and ‘Doe vs. Bolton’ [sic]. . . .
religious beliefs take precedence over civil laws when they are in
conflict . . . socialism is a creeping evil. . . . National health care is
a part of this creeping socialism. . . . no human force able to stop
this movement once it has begun in earnest. . . . Lives of all who
The Perils of Fundamentalism 11
speak in favor of abortion will be at grave risk. Perhaps, even
probably, the lives of those politicians who fail to strongly oppose
abortion will be at risk . . . No personal threat is intended. . . .
Sincerely in Christ, fr. David C. Trosch.8
Two weeks later, Paul Hill, a former minister, drove to The Ladies
Center, an abortion clinic in Pensacola, Florida, and shot to death Dr. John
Bayard Britton and James Barrett, the doctor’s escort. That same year,
bullets were mailed to clinics in Montana with doctors’ names inscribed on
them. Clinics across the nation received death threats by mail and phone,
and on August 9, a bomb was found outside a Planned Parenthood clinic.
Despite the fact that Trosch had been advocating the murder of pro-choice
doctors and adherents for years, only after these murders did the Catholic
Church decide to disassociate Trosch from the Church.
The U.S. downplay of its own extremist factions has grown
increasingly apparent. While focusing its war on terrorism halfway around
the globe, there has been little, if any mention of the many Christian-based
militias and training camps based across the U.S. and the many extreme
Christian sects. Nonetheless, when the parallels between Christian and
Islamic fundamentalism fully come to life, the reality will become
something we can no longer ignore. The need for Americans and our
government to recognize the threats posed by those living next door is
imperative to our safety. Terrorism is terrorism no matter under what
religion it is cloaked. It needs to be dealt with to assure every American’s
safety, not just safety in numbers, while at the same time preserving our
democracy.
Our lives, their lives, and the media
Although one of the gravest dangers stemming from Christian
fundamentalism, terrorism is only one of a multitude of problems posed by
such extreme beliefs. As will be developed in later chapters, not only do
children in fundamentalist homes often lack an adequate and appropriate
education, they are at high risk for physical abuse and incest. And
regardless of fundamentalists’ opposition to premarital sex, they are at high
risk for teen pregnancy. When these teens become sexually active, they are
less likely to use contraceptives. Other children are affected as well by
censorship that makes adequate sex education programs in public schools
extremely difficult. They are also affected by censorship of literature and
even textbooks. Furthermore, fundamentalist children, especially girls, are
12 The Fundamentals of Extremism
at risk for lower educational attainment.
Women are affected whether they come from fundamentalist homes
or not. Lack of reproductive choice, educational and career opportunities,
spousal abuse, rape, sexual and mental disorders, and welfare dependency
are all highly related to Christian fundamentalism. Fundamentalist beliefs
in the home contribute not only to these problems, but also to social
stereotypes and political action, or inaction, resulting from Christian Right
views. Men are no less affected as will be revealed throughout the
following chapters. The negative impact on men is most often
demonstrated by their treatment of women and children, through their
political actions, and sometimes through acts of violence and terrorism.
Christian fundamentalism also creates a host of other problems. First,
there is a strong relationship between fundamentalism and prejudice. This
leads to discrimination, intolerance, and hate crimes often directed at gays,
other races or religions, and women. Also problematic is the Christian
Right’s blocking of legislation that would otherwise give people options to
reduce or end their pain and suffering. It opposes medicinal marijuana for
the terminally ill and calls for prosecuting doctors who euthanize
terminally ill patients at the patients’ requests.
Fundamentalists also lack concern for the environment based on their
belief in man’s God-given dominion over all things, as is described in
Genesis. They look to the Second Coming of Christ in the not-so-distant
future, therefore, eliminating the need for the planet to sustain life for
hundreds of millions more years.
In addition, fundamentalists misinterpret the United States
Constitution, most specifically the First Amendment and its Separation
Clause, and they rewrite history to fit their Christian Nation theme. In
recent years, the political power of the Christian Right has seen significant
gains by taking an alarming number of seats at all levels of government. In
the upcoming chapters, the magnitude of the problems resulting from
Christian fundamentalism will be fully uncovered. Fundamentalism affects
our lives in a preponderance of ways, and it will be revealed how
fundamentalists leave few groups of people and few social and political
issues untouched.
But of more immediate interest is how this can be so unapparent to so
many. The answer lies, in part, in the illusions the Christian Right strives to
create. As Barbara M. Jones, author of Libraries, Access, and Intellectual
Freedom: Developing Policies for Public and Academic Libraries, points
out, “The religious right has become a particularly important interest group
in shaping public opinion.” 9 The Christian Right accomplishes this in
The Perils of Fundamentalism 13
several ways. In addition to its ownership of many media outlets, Christian
organizations and denominations such as the Southern Baptist Convention
and Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights have come to be
known for their control of the media. They threaten lawsuits and public
embarrassment and participate in letter writing campaigns. In addition,
they boycott companies that sponsor programs or publications to which the
Christian Right is opposed. Through such actions they are able to silence
negative publicity and most programming critical of religion or in direct
conflict with their views.
I saw the reality of the media control firsthand when I unexpectedly
encountered the Catholic League—an organization whose purpose is to
prevent and eliminate all criticism of Catholicism and its leadership. On
September 20, 2001, the San Francisco Examiner published a
commentary I wrote identifying the similarities between Islamic extremists
and their Christian counterparts. I revealed the Catholic League’s use of
intimidation to keep opponents and the media in line, as follows:
While less violent in nature, The Catholic League for Religious
and Civil Rights, a contradiction in itself, exists for the purpose of
Canon Law 1369, which states: ‘A person is to be punished with a
just penalty, who . . . utters blasphemy, or gravely harms public
morals, or rails at or excites hatred of or contempt for religion or
the Church.’ 10
Furthermore, I pointed out:
at a prayer breakfast during the 2000 Republican Convention,
Father Frank Provone of Priests for Life claimed, ‘The church
does not dictate the policies of the nation. The Church proclaims
the truth of God to which all these [public] policies must
conform.’11
The Catholic Church is one of the main organizers and supporters behind
the Christian Right. However, it has kept its identity concealed by calling
on Baptists and other Christian sects to do its bidding. In a concerted effort,
a wide range of Christian Right groups are working to break down the wall
between church and state.12
Following the publication of my opinion editorial, William Donahue,
president of the Catholic League, immediately telephoned Editorial Page
Editor Michael Stoll at the Examiner. Donahue charged that I had libeled
14 The Fundamentals of Extremism
“millions of Christians.”13 According to Donahue’s account, he requested
the Examiner “provide [him] with evidence, drawn from criminal records,
that the Catholic League is a violent organization.”14 Stoll responded that
while his criticisms may have been valid, my comment, “while less violent
in nature,” was no more than a “rhetorical flourish,”15 as was obvious, and
my own “opinion”16 to which I was entitled. Donahue then retorted, “And
it is my opinion that she be fired for making patently reckless, and
arguably libelous, accusations against the Catholic League.”17 Anyone
reading the full opinion piece would have easily recognized the metaphor
for what it was. I made no claim the League had acted in violence. Rather,
I indicated the nature of the organization, while not as extreme as those I
had previously discussed, was still, based on the wording of Canon Law
1369, a dangerous organization to be reckoned with.
Following Donahue’s call, the League issued a news release on its
website18 that later appeared in its print edition of the Catalyst, as well.
Both of these are outlets dedicated to the harassment of all who dare speak
out publicly against the abuses of the Catholic Church and its political
agenda. Those who offend Catholics in any way are candidates for severe
censure. Using my words out of context and misleading its own members,
the League then persuaded, “We urge members to write to Michael Stoll,
San Francisco Examiner . . . and ask why the newspaper still hasn’t
dropped Blaker.”
Intimidation is the League’s means to an end. Opinion that does not
paint religion or Catholicism in a positive light is libelous according to
Donahue and his attractors, despite laws to the contrary. Donahue’s
ludicrous call for the firing of a freelance writer was a further attempt at
bullying the Examiner into compliance and silencing me.
Following the posting of the Catholic League’s news release, the
Examiner was bombarded with more than a hundred letters coming from
states other than California. Nearly all of them demanded I be fired from a
publication with which I had never been employed. And, not only had I
been elevated to a “staff” member, many of the League’s letter writers took
it to higher levels and were “enraged” over the fact I was a “reporter” who
had opined in the “news.”
That, however, was just the beginning. Most letters to the Examiner
had included words like “libel” and “slander.” Many went so far as to hope
the League would sue the newspaper. One woman wrote requesting that
the Examiner supply her with “proof” the League is a threat to liberty. Stoll
responded:
The Perils of Fundamentalism 15
I would note that many people of many political and philosophical
persuasions consider a wide variety of institutions, people and
ways of thinking a ‘threat to liberty.’ It is a statement that is pure
opinion, and in my estimation does not require proof. Nor can it
be proven or disproven. That is precisely why it appeared on the
opinion page.19
Little did this woman realize her own allies were busy stating my case
for me. From Louisiana came a letter calling on the Examiner “to do the
right thing” because “the Supreme Court [sic] of the United States has
affirmed that the United States is a Christian nation. . . .” While the
statement itself is false, this was, in fact, the exact threat in which I
described in my opinion editorial—an attempt to create a religiously based
government. Additional proof of the League’s threat to liberty came from
an Oregonian who requested the Examiner “take a more critical view of
such articles and censor [emphasis added] such blatantly biased writers.” It
would seem the Catholic League’s membership unknowingly contradicts
the League’s stated purpose, which is to defend “religious and civil rights.”
Apparently, free speech, at least for the nonreligious, does not fall into that
category.
A couple of League members even wrote that the Examiner should
have automatically turned away my submission because I was “a known
atheist.” A Nevada woman also insisted an editor’s note should have
appeared underneath the commentary specifying, “that she is a noted
atheist,” even though opinions expressed by believers hardly ever have an
editorial note identifying the author’s religion.
The actions of Donahue and these members of the Catholic League
indicate they are defending Catholic religious civil rights, not the religious
and civil rights of all. What also became apparent is whether something
negative said against Christianity or Catholicism is “libelous” or pure fact
is not important. What matters is that public criticism of Catholicism takes
place at all. This was evidenced by several League members. A
Massachusetts man argued that his relative who is a priest has done good
works. Therefore, he reasoned, “What right does she [Blaker] have to
criticize people who have given up a comfortable life to do this type of
work?” In the eyes of many fundamentalists, Christian or Catholic, any
good works should eliminate all criticism.
But, what makes the Catholic League’s members so apt to participate
in these letter-writing campaigns? In addition to believing all criticism of
religion should be suppressed, many are also convinced the Church and
Catholics, in general, have become targets of a widespread contempt for
16 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Catholicism. A New Yorker shared this typical belief described in many
letters from Catholic League members. His grievance was, “Anti-
Catholicism in America today exceeds acts of bias against any other
ethnic, racial or religious group,” even though this is patently untrue.
Regardless, the member pointed out, “Page after page of the Catalyst
newsletter is evidence of the hostility and intolerance the Catholic Church
is subjected to in America.”
The League exploits its membership by crying foul and riling it up for
every minor offense against the Church. Yet, rarely does it exhibit
evidence of discriminatory practices or hate crimes against Catholics. This
is despite numerous documented cases of discrimination toward African-
Americans, homosexuals, Jews, Muslims, atheists, and other minority
groups in this country. The “bias” these Catholics denounce is most often
criticism of Catholic beliefs imposed on its adherents and the beliefs it
attempts to impose on the world, including Americans. Regardless of
criticism, no one obstructs the practice of Catholic beliefs. And although
they may say otherwise, today there is little discrimination against them.
Ironically, in December (2001), a freelance production assistant
contacted the Examiner to discuss the fracas. While I was following up
with the production assistant a couple of days later, he explained that a
video magazine, American Catholic, had been asked to do a segment on
Catholic bashing. However, the journalistic investigation quickly took a
turn. According to the freelancer, in his attempt to uncover these injustices,
he instead unmasked much to the contrary. What he found was the
Catholic League wielding its power against anyone who exposed the
Church or the League. 20 It appeared that the program would instead
develop into an expose of the intimidation tactics used by the Catholic
League in its efforts to keep negative publicity under wraps. As would be
expected, the segment never materialized.21
Not long after, the Palm Beach Post became a target of the Catholic
League when it published a cartoon by Don Wright, which also appeared
in the New York Times and the Sacramento Bee. The cartoon depicted a
contemplative woman who says:
For women, sexual conduct is always closely monitored. The
Catholic Church tells me what I can or cannot do with my body.
Truly unforgiving. Absolutely no compromises. Unless, of
course, you're a pedophile.
At Donahue’s command, the League’s director of communications,
Patrick Scully, telephoned the editorial page editor of the Palm Beach
The Perils of Fundamentalism 17
Post demanding an apology. Randy Schultz responded, "There will be no
apology because there is nothing to apologize for." Schultz pointed out to
Scully the cartoon was merely a "critique" of the Church's "policies." But
to the League, it was no less “vicious” than my own criticism and
deserving of another letter writing campaign. This was regardless of the
cartoon’s factual basis and that the League could not even misconstrue
“libel.” The League urged in its Catalyst, “Now it's time that Schultz heard
from you.”
The address to the Palm Beach Post was published with a request to,
“Tell him [Schultz] that he and his boy Don Wright are doing such a good
job that we've decided to honor them with an entry in next year's Annual
Report on Anti-Catholicism.”22 As it turns out, I was honored in that
report, as well.23 Similar to Schultz’s response to the Catholic controlmongers,
the Examiner’s Stoll informed me, “None of the letters
convinced me of anything other than that there are hundreds of people
around the country who are defensive and intolerant of criticism.”24
In these two instances, the Catholic League’s bully tactics did not pay
off. As Stoll pointed out, “It was more of an annoyance than anything.”
But, the Catalyst contains many reports of victories in which businesses
have capitulated to the League’s demands; if for no other reason then to
avoid the hassle as was described by Stoll. These threats are often
effective. To many businesses and corporations, the time and costs
involved in a legal suit are not worth the hassle. This is so, even when the
company being threatened would ultimately win the case. In the end, the
League plays a crucial role in the formation of public opinion as it latches
its restraints on every form of media.
Fomenters of mass hysteria
At the same time, as Jones points out, the media also plays a crucial
role in shaping public opinion because Americans accept the “spin” the
media places on issues before critically evaluating the information and
messages they are receiving.25 The Christian Right uses this to its
advantage as well. It knows the hunger of the media and the media’s
tendency to sensationalize. So, the Christian Right feeds it with
misinformation and half-truths about anything to which fundamentalists
are opposed. In this way, fundamentalists can easily meet their objectives
and gain the upper hand. This is effective because of the controversy
created, which leads to full-scale national debate. Such scare tactics lead
the public to political action and voting booths as nothing else could. And
it is exactly what has happened with the recent controversy over the
18 The Fundamentals of Extremism
diagnosis of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (AD/HD) and its
preferred treatment, Ritalin, a case in point.
AD/HD is “characterized by developmentally inappropriate
impulsivity, inattention, and in some cases, hyperactivity.”26 The U.S.
Surgeon General, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the
National Institutes of Mental Health (NIMH), the American Psychiatric
Association, the American Academy of Pediatrics, and the American
Medical Association have all recognized AD/HD as a real neurobiological
disorder. And the American Academy of Pediatrics, NIMH, and U.S.
Surgeon General, among others, recommend treatment that may include
prescription, such as stimulant, medication. These include Adderall,
Dexedrine, and Ritalin, which have each been found to have a seventy-five
percent response rate in treating children with AD/HD.27
The ability of the Christian Right to shape public opinion has played a
crucial role in this debate. Most troubling is not only the stigma that has
emerged for those with AD/HD, but that at least twenty-nine states have
proposed far-reaching bills in a period of less than two years. State
legislation has been drafted to regulate psychotropic drug use in schools,
which could ultimately give the state the authority to deny a child the right
to take his or her prescribed and necessary psychotropic medications
during the school day. Yet, other prescribed and medically necessary drugs
are regulated only by the federal Food and Drug Administration, where
such regulation should remain. Other legislation would censor educators’
communications with parents and would ultimately undermine the
detection of AD/HD—all aimed at curbing Ritalin use. In several states,
radical proposals have already been drafted to ban the use of Ritalin in
school settings altogether, and such measures are likely to be seen
elsewhere. Such policies are likely to become a part of school law, because
some Ritalin opponents repeatedly misuse statistics and take information
out of context to support their cause.
Most parents are concerned with unnecessarily medicating their
children. Yet, if fully and accurately informed about an illness, disease, or
disorder and its treatment, most parents will opt to medicate when it is the
best known treatment for the particular ailment and necessary to the child’s
welfare. Unfortunately, because of the hype over the issue, much of the
public still misunderstands the reality and effective treatments for AD/HD
and fails to recognize the disorder is not benign. Therefore, a large segment
of the AD/HD population either has gone untreated or uses ineffective or
minimally effective options.
The grave impact of this misinformation campaign can be
demonstrated in a preponderance of ways. While only an estimated three
The Perils of Fundamentalism 19
to five percent of the population has AD/HD, a Utah study found twentyfour
percent of its male prison inmates were classic AD/HD cases. The
Medical Director of Buena Vista Correctional Facility and Assistant Chief
Medical Officer of the Colorado Department of Corrections, T. Dwaine
McCallon, M.D., shares his knowledge. He pointed out that experience, as
well as studies he has conducted “have led us to believe that upwards of
forty percent of our residents in a medium security prison have the findings
along the Tourette/AD[/H]D spectrum.” McCallon adds, “If you separate
out the nonviolent, impulsive criminals (who I term my basic, charming,
and even lovable car thieves and traffic offenders), the percentage [with
AD/HD] is much greater.”28
Other sobering statistics are that thirty-two to forty percent of those
with AD/HD will drop out of school, fifty to seventy percent “have few or
no friends,” forty to fifty percent will show antisocial behaviors, seventy to
eighty percent will perform poorly at work, forty percent of AD/HD girls
will become pregnant in their teens29—and this is only a tip of the iceberg.
Yet, who are the major opponents of Ritalin and AD/HD and what are
their motives? In recent years, several special interest groups have targeted
AD/HD and Ritalin. The Church of Scientology, a nonChristian cult, has
been at the forefront of the campaign. Still, few Americans, even those
affected with the disorder, are aware of some of the groups and motives
behind the crusade. Only by delving into an investigation of the Michiganbased
Mackinac Center for Public Policy was I able to uncover other roots
of this sham. The Christian Right’s ties to this campaign now unravel—
and their motives to halt Ritalin or stimulant use become clearer.
The Mackinac Center holds, “The best way to make a lasting impact
on public policy is to change public opinion. When you change the beliefs
of people, politicians and political parties change with them.”30 The
Center, with an annual budget of about one million, is a sizable player in
the formation of public opinion. In this case, along with its
communications specialist, Samuel Walker, it appears to be on a publicity
campaign to create public concern and hysteria over the diagnosis, or
misdiagnosis, and treatment of AD/HD. Walker and the Center have
published many articles appearing in newspapers across Michigan,
contradicting scientific facts and causing mass public confusion.
The Mackinac Center, a right-wing think tank operating under a
façade of a “nonpartisan research and educational organization,”31 has
been criticized repeatedly by Detroit’s Metro Times,32 James Ferency of
the Mackinac Center for Public Policy Watch,33 and many others. The
reason for such criticism stems from the Center’s disguised radical-right
agenda to privatize schools, employ a school voucher system, and to create
20 The Fundamentals of Extremism
a free market. Under this economic system, businesses operate completely
free from government regulation with no protections for public interest or
the national economy.
Still, how does the Christian Right fit into this scheme? First, for many
Christian fundamentalists, the reality of neurobiological disorders that can
affect behavior is disowned. Pastor Terry L. Coomer of the Elwood Bible
Baptist Church in Indiana exemplifies this view:
As a Pastor, I have been greatly concerned to see and hear of
many Christian parents putting their children on drugs such as
Ritalin for behavior. I believe this is an epidemic of disastrous
proportions to the children of America. It also shows the lack of
spiritual training the parents are receiving in the church to rear
their children spiritually as the Bible commands. Proverbs 22:6,
‘Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he
will not depart from it.’34
To fundamentalists, it is a “spare the rod, spoil the child” mentality all
the way. It matters not that brain chemistry is malfunctioning and that
those affected have little or no control. To fundamentalists, it is merely a
matter of “good” and “evil” and breaking the will of the child.
Nonetheless, there are fundamentalists who seem to recognize the reality
of AD/HD and do not propose such severe discipline measures for
children with the diagnosis. Yet, they still oppose psychotropic drug
treatment.
Therefore, another reason for the Christian Right’s involvement is that,
like the Mackinac Center, one of the Christian Right’s major objectives is a
voucher system and school privatization, or Christian-based schools.
Unlike some groups favoring school choice and private school
opportunities, one of the objectives of fundamentalists and their
counterparts is the total destruction of the public schools. As you will learn
in Chapters 3 and 7, the religious right has discovered its road to victory. It
can be achieved by attacking public education, misusing statistics,
spreading misinformation, and overstating the issue of student failure in an
effort to gain support for vouchers and school privatization.
Fundamentalists believe it is their God-given duty to convert all American
children to an extreme brand of Christianity. The fastest way for the
Mackinac Center and the Christian Right to achieve their goals is
dismantling the public education system.
Yet, what do Ritalin and AD/HD have to do with all of this? The
devastating effects of untreated AD/HD are well established. Therefore, if
The Perils of Fundamentalism 21
Ritalin use is reduced, more students would fail and drop out of school,
educational assessment test scores would drop, and behavior problems and
drug use would be on the rise—leading to an increase in school suspension
and expulsion rates. All of this would create an illusion that public schools
have failed, thereby strengthening support for vouchers and school
privatization.
To the Christian Right’s advantage, in private schools this problem
would go unrealized. That’s because private schools can select their
students and remove troublemakers (often children with AD/HD) who are
then disproportionately enrolled in public institutions. This increases the
appearance of public schools’ rate of failure if these children are forced to
go untreated or inadequately treated for AD/HD. Although such a tactic
alone might not be effective in meeting the Christian Right’s objective,
combined with other maneuvers it could be a final breaking point for the
public school system.
Nonetheless, the Christian Right has escaped implication in this
campaign because of its well-devised tactics of hiding behind and
coordinating with others to meet its objectives. In this case, the Mackinac
Center, among other organizations, has been the perfect cover. Rather than
being at the front of the publicity campaign, Christian Right organizations
fund the Mackinac Center and let it do its bidding. Twenty percent of the
Center’s funding comes from big corporations such as Dow Chemical;
while another fifty percent comes from foundations, many with Christian
Right ties—including the Prince and Merillat Foundations.35
Of course, these ties were not easy to untangle. The Mackinac Center
refuses to divulge where its funding comes from. It has only been through
investigations and figures disclosed by the National Education Association
and author Russ Bellant in The Religious Right in Michigan Politics that
this information has been uncovered.
Another major donor of the Mackinac Center is the Richard and Helen
DeVos Foundation, founder of Amway.36 The DeVos family, known for
its Christian Right ties, also invested more than $4 million in 2000 in an
attempt “to persuade Michigan voters to divert funds from public schools
into private-school vouchers.”37 The DeVos Foundation also donated
nearly a third of its $95.1 million from 1991 to 1997 to “organizations that
espouse Christian values.”38 Furthermore, DeVos is a member of the
Council for National Policy (CNP), a far-right organization with ties to the
Church of Scientology. It has been noted for its secrecy, including its
membership of the nation’s most influential and dangerous religious right
22 The Fundamentals of Extremism
leaders like Paul Weyrich, Pat Robertson, Jerry Falwell, Bill Bright,
Phyllis Schlafly, James Dobson, D. James Kennedy, Oliver North, and the
late R.J. Rushdoony.39
Most telling of the Christian Right’s involvement in the Ritalin scare is
revealed by Scientology’s Citizen’s Commission on Human Rights
(CCHR), an organization opposing the use of any form of psychiatric
drugs or treatment. In 1995, a united front representing 40 million people
met in Washington, D.C. to sign a compact. It stated, among other things,
“We pledge to eliminate . . . all dangerous and invasive
psychiatric/psychologically-based programs, assessments, and tests from
our schools, and funding thereof.”40 Scientologists did not act on this
alone. Signers of this pledge included Christian Right organizations such
as Phyllis Schlafly’s Eagle Forum, Gary Bauer’s Family Research
Council, The Rutherford Institute, Beverly LaHaye’s Concerned Women
for America, and many others.41
It should be noted, it is recognized that such groups as herbalists and
New Agers may also personally oppose the use of nonorganic treatments.
The difference is that they are generally not associated with political action
to block access for others.
What has also gone unnoticed in this campaign are Christian Right
and fundamentalist websites including Phyllis Schlafly’s Eagle Forum.
Some have become an avenue to discredit the reality of AD/HD, its
devastating impact, and/or the effective use of stimulant medication
especially when in combination with behavior modification. These sites
post articles contradicting medical facts and induce guilt in parents who
treat their children with stimulants or psychotropic drugs in general. A
typical example is distorting and downplaying the reasons for diagnosis of
AD/HD and the need for treatment with psychotropic drugs. In Policy
Review, the publication of the Heritage Foundation, Mary Eberstadt insists:
The most obvious reason millions of Americans, most of them
children, are now taking Ritalin can be summarized in a single
word that crops up everywhere in the dry-bones literature on add
and its drug of choice: compliance. One day at a time, the drug
continues to make children do what their parents and teachers
either will not or cannot get them to do without it: Sit down, shut
up, keep still, pay attention.42
Such accusations make concerned parents question the reality of the
situation and overlook the severity of their child’s symptoms. No parent
wants to be perceived as lazy and unwilling or lacking in the ability to
The Perils of Fundamentalism 23
manage his or her children. By suggesting such parents and teachers would
rather not be bothered by the everyday disobedience, more are apt to cave
to the pressure of the anti-Ritalin campaign. In reality, AD/HD children are
often severely disobedient (not necessarily intentionally) and lack control
of their emotions. School failure due to hyperactivity, inattentiveness, and a
host of other lifelong problems, as indicated in the studies above, also
result.
In addition to the tactics employed by the Christian Right and the
media to form public opinion, the hidden agenda is, for the most part, what
has made this misinformation campaign such a success. Without
understanding the motives behind this debate, it has been difficult for the
medical and scientific community to get through to the public on this issue
and for the public to see through the rhetoric.
Much of the AD/HD population has remained confused because of
the anti-Ritalin and anti-AD/HD hype and, therefore, has not undergone
adequate or appropriate treatment. No parent wants to medicate his or her
child unnecessarily. Those who do not have access to all the information
are easily won over to the, “I’m not going to drug my child” side. Those
behind the campaign and even innocent bystanders caught up in it instill
guilt in well-meaning parents who otherwise would opt for the oftennecessary
treatment. This is a well-devised tactic to institute ideological
practices throughout all of society and to reduce Ritalin use until the public
education system is dismantled.
Unfortunately, many Americans have innocently fallen prey to the
spread of misinformation in this campaign and are now unwittingly fueling
the fire—exactly as Scientologists and the Christian Right anticipated. It is
therefore, the perfect example of the Christian Right’s ability to manipulate
the media and the public in ways we are only beginning to recognize. In
this case, the consequence is that millions of children and adults with
AD/HD and their families are the ones to suffer. And as revealed by
statistics relating to the AD/HD population, society as a whole is
dramatically affected by this Christian Right and Scientology campaign.
While it is not one of the Christian Right’s most pertinent issues of the
day, it is nonetheless a clear example of how the movement remains
hidden from radar for most of society. Recognizing even the less
monumental ways in which society is affected by fundamentalism is
necessary to combating and minimizing the damage.
* * * * * *
In spite of all the dangers and frustrations posed by Christian
fundamentalism, the writers of this book recognize that most
24 The Fundamentals of Extremism
fundamentalists and those with similar characteristics are good people. In
many ways fundamentalists are no different from you and me; and we
wish no harm to those who adhere to such beliefs. What we do hope
comes out of this book is an understanding of the causes of
fundamentalism, as you will discover in Chapter 2, and greater awareness
of how fundamentalist beliefs and practices harm its adherents, its
detractors, and everyone in between.
Recognition alone, however, is not enough. Knowing the
ramifications of allowing this movement to slowly infiltrate all arenas,
from public schools and local governments to Congress and even the
presidency, hastens the need for Americans to find ways to protect against
this invasion. What we hope is that readers will come away after reading
about solutions to the growing danger (Chapter 8) with insight into ways to
alleviate the problems posed by fundamentalism. In addition, it is hoped
this book will create a desire to take action to protect ourselves and our
democracy—without impeding the rights of or harming those we are up
against.
25
Chapter 2
THE GATHERING STORM
by Edwin F. Kagin
I want you to just let a wave of intolerance wash over you. I want you to let
a wave of hatred wash over you. Yes, hate is good . . . Our goal is a
Christian nation. We have a Biblical duty; we are called by God, to
conquer this country. We don't want equal time. We don't want
pluralism.43
Randall Terry, founder of the
anti-abortion organization, Operation Rescue
Fundamentalism has been increasing around the world, including the
United States, among Christians, Muslims, Hindus, and Jews.44 This has
been seen in the growth of born-again or evangelical Christians, which
rose from thirty-two percent to thirty-seven percent from 1986 to 1990
alone. And in 1993, the fastest growing church in America was the Church
of God in Christ, a fundamentalist Protestant denomination.45 According
to a 1993 Gallup Poll, the majority of Americans at that time held
traditional beliefs. In spite of a drop in religious interest during the 1960s
and 1970s, fundamentalism has since continued to increase.46 Many
Christians with characteristics similar or identical to fundamentalists do not
consider themselves such. Still, about fifty percent of the sixty million
born-again Christians in the United States claim the fundamentalist
identity. At the same time, mainstream Protestant denominations are
declining. 47
Christian fundamentalism has seen similar growth in other parts of the
world, as people are rapidly converting to evangelical and fundamentalist
churches in the Philippines, Africa, Latin America, and elsewhere.48 More
alarming is that fundamentalist Islam has succeeded in the goal of
imposing theocratic restrictions on members of many societies.49 This is a
26 The Fundamentals of Extremism
fact that has dominated the media since September 11, 2001, offering a
glimpse of fundamentalism’s strength and extremity.
Yet, what exactly is Christian fundamentalism? To begin, it is an
inflexible, absolutist worldview. Until recently, only the 1611 King James
Version of the Bible was accepted by fundamentalists. This revered
version, however, has recently come into some disfavor because
fundamentalists have discovered what many historians have claimed all
along: King James was a homosexual. To many fundamentalists, King
James' homosexuality disqualifies the translation from acceptability. Gary
Bauer from northern Kentucky is former president of the Family Research
Council (FRC) a Christian fundamentalist “pro family” organization, a
former domestic policy advisor to President Ronald Reagan, and a
Republican candidate for the 2002 Presidential campaign. It has been
widely circulated that Bauer concluded that nothing touched by a
homosexual could be good for good Christians:
I feel uncomfortable that good Christians all over America, and
indeed the world, are using a document commissioned by a
homosexual. Anything that has been commissioned by a
homosexual has obviously been tainted in some way.50
This originated as parody, but so accurately fits Bauer’s views, that it has
been frequently cited by fundamentalists.
As a result of King James sexual orientation, fundamentalists have
produced other translations, and, better still, “paraphrases” of the Bible. In
doing so they have benefited their cause. They have managed to “clean
up” certain stories, alter phrases, and clarify meanings. Such passages,
otherwise, might prove problematic for a work held to be free of error and
suitable for reading in schools. Unsettling uncertainty must arise, as
fundamentalists no longer have a definitive translation of an ancient
collection of writings declared sacred and the inerrant word of God.
Regardless, people sharing the fundamentalist mindset generally believe
all religious and secular laws and practices must conform to their belief
system. Simply put, Christian fundamentalists, known politically as the
Christian Right, want to control our laws and our lives. They have a fixed
certainty that they are right about what God wants, and that what God
wants is for them to be in power. This leads them to use a variety of tactics
to achieve that end.
God’s word, to them, is the final authority by which every aspect of
our laws and our lives should be controlled. Any view of the Bible outside
of an inerrant and literalist understanding is perceived, and denounced, as
The Gathering Storm 27
“modernism.” Fundamentalists determine what is God’s word, for truth
has been revealed unto them alone, the ones favored by God who are to be
raptured into heaven. Sinners are those who have rejected the
fundamentalist vision of truth, version of righteousness, and view of the
beginning, meaning, and end of life. They are to be “left behind” to suffer
justly deserved eternal punishment.
To be sure, Christian fundamentalism is not unique in its, “we are
right, and you are wrong” mentality and its insistence upon a literal reading
of invented histories framed in legend and allegory. There is little
difference in essence between Christian fundamentalism and Islamic
fundamentalism. Nor is there much difference in any other system that
believes the entire body of an ancient mythical system, frozen in time, is
rendered holy by antiquity, and is made more worthy of belief by faith and
hope than by merit and proof. All religious fundamentalists, however
called, are much the same under the skin. They may be highly dissimilar in
methods and goals, and their words may be different, but their tune is the
same. God is on their side, and therefore, their beliefs are true and should
be involuntarily enforced on all members of society.
In its broadest sense, “fundamentalism,” or its claim to the adherence
to the “traditional,” the “old ways,” the “orthodox,” has probably been
around as long as there have been religions. Although in many instances, it
is not “tradition” to which fundamentalists cling. They hold fast to recent
or newly created ways benefiting their cause. Still, a religious tradition may
have been established once some primitive people, led by some primitive
priest, decided good things would happen to the tribe if they stuck a bone
into the left eye socket of a cave bear skull. Religious schisms probably
resulted when some religious reformer or reform group announced a
different way of doing something. To the outrage and dismay of the
traditionalists, it may have been suggested religious purpose could
henceforth be better served if a bone were to be placed in the right eye
socket. More apostate, reformers could have recommended separate bones
be entered into each eyehole of the skull. Religious war and denominations
may have followed.
A fundamentalist priesthood can control kingdoms. Egyptian pharaoh
Akhenaten may have been murdered by traditionalists, by the
fundamentalist priests of Amon-Re. The heretic monarch sought to replace
his religion with his personal sun god, the Aten.51 For centuries, the rulers
of Egypt had acknowledged the supremacy of the deity Amon-Re. A
politically-powerful and wealthy priesthood had arisen around the religion,
and the religious duties associated with that god. Akhenaten appears to
28 The Fundamentals of Extremism
have attempted to single-handedly change the traditional, or
fundamentalist, view of religion.
Similarly, Christian reformers have attempted to modify traditional or
fundamental Christian interpretations, based on new knowledge or
expanded insight and vision. Akhenaten’s new vision of religion, his
modernism, was rejected by the fundamentalist priests. It was also
dismissed by the people who felt safety lay in the familiar and traditional
much as today’s fundamentalists believe. Fundamentalism, in one form or
another, has been around for some time. It may always be with us, because
of what we have come to understand as “human nature.” Hopefully,
recognition and understanding of fundamentalism will broaden appropriate
and effective ways to address the problems and such will be undertaken.
This will assure our democracy’s survival.
On the positive side, fundamentalism does attempt to address real
problems. As Richard Swift in “Fundamentalism: Reaching for Certainty”
notes, the difficulty is problems are handled obsessively and
incompletely.52 These attempts at coping are too often done in backwards,
unlawful, and ineffective ways. Sometimes the problems are addressed in
a manner that heightens, rather than reduces the problem. Therefore, the
fundamentalist becomes part of the problem, rather than part of the
solution. This can be seen with such crucial issues as teen pregnancy and
child abuse.
America got the Puritans
Religious conservatism has been a force in American society since the
early nineteenth century, if not before, according to Michael Lienesch of
Redeeming America: Piety & Politics in the New Christian Right. This
group, more recently known as the religious right, is not always visible to
the public eye. Yet, it has been able to stand on its own and adjust to
changing times and is always close by—whether we realize it or not.53
That is because, as has been wittily observed, Australia got the convicts,
and America got the Puritans. It has been more darkly mused Australia
must have gotten first choice.
Many different types of people came to these shores for many
different reasons. The Puritans came from England and elsewhere to
practice their religion without restraint away from those who did not want
to be controlled by the Puritans. Those cute Pilgrims we honor in school
Thanksgiving plays and on festive holiday paper plates were actually some
of the most repressed and repressive religious types in the history of the
world. While the Puritans controlled England under Oliver Cromwell,
The Gathering Storm 29
they had, among other repressive actions, closed the theaters and outlawed
Christmas.54 It has been said in derision a Puritan is one who is haunted by
a lurking suspicion that somehow, someone, somewhere might still be
happy.
To be sure, many of the virtues of the Puritans have helped to mold the
American character in desirable ways. Among those qualities were their
commitments to hard work, honesty, integrity, duty, education, and family.
Ideas are not responsible for the people who support them. The mischief of
the Puritan heritage is seen in the clearly-stated and understood intent of
the Puritans to form a theocracy in the New World. The Mayflower
Compact of 1620 is often cited by modern day fundamentalists as a
blueprint for how America should be, governed by God's law and those
divinely inspired by him. Because of the importance of this much-talked
about, yet little-read historic document, it is set out in its entirety:
In the name of God, Amen. We, whose names are underwritten,
the Loyal Subjects of our dread Sovereign Lord, King James, by
the Grace of God, of England, France and Ireland, King, Defender
of the Faith, e& [etc.].
Having undertaken for the Glory of God, and Advancement of the
Christian Faith, and the Honor of our King and Country, a voyage
to plant the first colony in the northern parts of Virginia; do by
these presents, solemnly and mutually in the Presence of God and
one of another, covenant and combine ourselves together into a
civil Body Politick, for our better Ordering and Preservation, and
Furtherance of the Ends aforesaid; And by Virtue hereof to enact,
constitute, and frame, such just and equal Laws, Ordinances, Acts,
Constitutions and Offices, from time to time, as shall be thought
most meet and convenient for the General good of the Colony;
unto which we promise all due submission and obedience.
In Witness whereof we have hereunto subscribed our names at
Cape Cod the eleventh of November, in the Reign of our
Sovereign Lord, King James of England, France and Ireland, the
eighteenth, and of Scotland the fifty-fourth. Anno Domini,
1620.55
Seldom noted is that the document was signed by only forty-one of the 102
passengers of the Mayflower, thirty-seven of whom were Separatists
fleeing “religious persecution” in Europe.56
30 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Our nation was established on principles that deliberately and
expressly rejected the forced state-sanctioned religiosity that was attempted
by fundamentalists who put together the “Mayflower Compact.” Yet the
seeds the Puritans sowed fell on rich and fertile soil in the heartland of
America. While much is different, much abides. Today’s fundamentalists
are the intellectual descendents of the Puritans. They offer America a
theocracy that differs little from what the Puritans intended. For some
fundamentalists, however, it is not an offer, but an imposition that must be
accepted.
Despite the claims of the modern fundamentalist movement, the
Mayflower Compact forms no part of the laws of the United States. There
was no United States of America at the time, nor was there such a country
until the ratification of the Constitution of the United States. It was adopted
in 1787 and completed in 1788, 168 years after the signing of the
Mayflower Compact. Whereas the Mayflower Compact was, “undertaken
for the Glory of God and Advancement of the Christian Faith . . . ,” the
Preamble to the Constitution of the United States sets out a far different
purpose:
We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more
perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility,
provide for the common defense, promote the general Welfare,
and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity,
do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of
America.57
There is no mention of God in the Preamble or anywhere in the
Constitution. This was conscious and deliberate. The Constitution intended
to establish the United States as a secular state, rejecting all attempts to
make it otherwise. This fact did not escape the notice of the
fundamentalists of the day, who denounced the Constitution as a “Godless
document.” Indeed, to make unmistakably clear the wholly secular nature
of the new government being created, Article VI, Clause 3 of our
Constitution states:
The Senators and Representatives before mentioned, and the
Members of the several State Legislatures, and all executive and
judicial Officers, both of the United States and of the several
States, shall be bound by Oath or Affirmation, to support this
Constitution; but no religious Test shall ever be required as a
The Gathering Storm 31
Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United
States.58
Fundamentalists did not like that American truth then, nor do they like
it today. They still maintain America was established as a “Christian
nation.” They insist there is no “wall of separation” between church and
state created by our Constitution, as President Thomas Jefferson assured
the Danbury, Connecticut, Baptists there was. They wanted separation of
church and state at that time in our history because they were the outsiders
then, the ones facing religious harassment by the fundamentalists du jour.
There are many safeguards and guarantees to ensure our nation
remains forever free of any form of religious control. Despite this, some
fundamentalists, throughout history, have continued in their attempts to
make the United States a nation controlled by their religion and, therefore,
by them. It is overwhelmingly obvious and documented that our nation
was set up to forever keep separate the business of the state from the
dogma of a given religion or religion in general. So, one might well
consider this a betrayal of our Constitution and democracy.
Fundamentalists who share the views of those who lost out in the great
religious debates at the time of our founding are with us still—and are
more virulent than ever.
The fundamentalism that arose in the United States has a rather clear
history, at least as to certain watershed events shaping its direction. A
century following the arrival of the Puritans, writes historian Alan Brinkley
in American History: A Survey, Volume I: To 1877, colonists came to the
conclusion, “religious piety was in decline, and opportunities for spiritual
regeneration were dwindling.”59 This led to “the first great American
revival,” now known as the Great Awakening,60 which began in New
Jersey in the 1730s. The movement spread throughout the colonies, but
had its greatest manifestations in New England.61 There, colonists heard
the preaching of the British evangelist George Whitefield and of the
Connecticut-born and Yale-educated New England Congregationalist
preacher Jonathon Edwards.62
One of Edwards’s dark sermons with which he stirred adherents
became the emblem of the Great Awakening. “Sinners in the Hands of an
Angry God”63 is a classic diatribe. It is a bitter, abusive denunciation of
those who do not share the preacher’s views and what God’s wrath will do
to them:
The devil stands ready to fall upon them, and seize them as his
own, at what moment God shall permit him. They belong to him;
32 The Fundamentals of Extremism
he has their souls in his possession, and under his dominion. The
scripture represents them as his goods, Luke 11:12. The devils
watch them; they are ever by them at their right hand; they stand
waiting for them, like greedy hungry lions that see their prey, and
expect to have it, but are for the present kept back. If God should
withdraw his hand, by which they are restrained, in one moment
they would fly upon their poor souls. The old serpent is gaping for
them; hell opens its mouth wide to receive them; and if God
should permit it, they would be hastily swallowed up and lost . . .
Thus it will be with you that are in an unconverted state, if you
continue in it; the infinite might, and majesty, and terribleness of
the omnipotent God shall be magnified upon you, in the ineffable
strength of your torments. You shall be tormented in the presence
of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb; and when you
shall be in this state of suffering, the glorious inhabitants of
heaven shall go forth and look on the awful spectacle, that they
may see what the wrath and fierceness of the Almighty is; and
when they have seen it, they will fall down and adore that great
power and majesty.
Recently, this rant has been rescued from well-deserved obscurity. It is
now held up as a work of great worth to many God-fearing people in the
modern Christian fundamentalist movement. Preaching that is simple,
direct, absolutist, and condemning of others has come to be favored among
many fundamentalist churches.
In addition to the dwindling religious atmosphere, the revival was also
spurred by social tensions and a strong desire among the people “for an
intense religious experience.”64 Thus, it “spread over the colonies like a
religious epidemic.”65 However, it reached a climax in the 1740s.66 The
revival lost much of its strength and momentum because many colonists,
including many who would become the founders of the United States, held
more rationalistic views. Thus, their age was titled, “The
Enlightenment.”67 Regardless, Edwards and Whitefield brought about
lasting changes. Revivalist churches took the form of rousing and
appealing to congregations. To their credit, these churches also came to be
run in a democratic manner.68 But, the fear of hellfire and the power of
conversion proved to have little staying power. It was little different from
the passing of the Puritan zeal in England and other situations where rabid
faith faded like mist with the passing of a frightening contemporary threat
or leader.
The Gathering Storm 33
For several decades, it appeared religion in America was a weak and
dying force. But, after the American Revolution, at the turn of the century,
religion gained a new wind in the “Second Great Awakening.”69
According to William Martin, the Harry and Hazel Chavanne Professor of
Religion and Public Policy in the Department of Sociology at Rice
University and author of With God on Our Side: The Rise of the Religious
Right in America:
The first phase of this revival, the southern and western camp
meetings, turned the American South into perhaps the most
distinctively and self-consciously religious region in Christendom.
The second phase came remarkably close to achieving the
evangelical dream of making America a Christian nation.70
This time the revivalist denominations were not interested in restoring
the religious institutions of the past. Instead, they promoted acceptance of
many different denominations and sects as being “committed to essentially
the same Christian faith.” They were serving the purpose of creating social
stability and order in communities that did not yet have an identity.71
Millennial expectations were again roused. Most importantly, there came a
theological emphasis and preoccupation with living sinless lives, known as
“sanctification.” Fornication, profanity, alcohol, gambling, and dishonesty
were of utmost concern for personal piety. This emphasis on personal
perfection seemed to relieve fundamentalists of any political, economic, or
social duty. The Second Great Awakening, according to Martin, had its
strongest impact on the South where revivals, Biblical inerrancy, and piety
and purity permeated the culture.72
But, when Charles Finney, a Presbyterian lawyer, was persuaded to
join the Association of Gentlemen, a group of wealthy millenarians that
later came to characterize evangelical Christianity, Finney started the
movement on a political course. He urged: “The great business of the
church is to reform the world—to put away every kind of sin,” 73 and he
preached it was the duty of true Christians to procure legislation according
to God’s law.74 He began preaching at revivals in upstate New York
following an experience of “a mighty baptism of the Holy Ghost” during
the time of the “Second Awakening.”75
Because of this revival, Martin says America became the most
Christianized nation of all time. By the mid-1800s, evangelism was the
dominant Christian force. The movement was a success because of the
business know-how of its practitioners, from fund raising and advertising
to teaching unchurched children, entertaining, and using effective
34 The Fundamentals of Extremism
revivals.76 Such techniques have not been lost on their modern successors.
In the North during the first half of the nineteenth century, evangelical
Christians zealously campaigned to eliminate war, poverty, slavery,
profanity, subjugation of women, and much more. They believed their
goal for a perfect society would bring the second coming of Christ.77
In the South, the Ku Klux Klan became a clearinghouse for the cause
of fundamentalist Protestantism. This new Puritanism was dedicated to
preserving the old ways that benefited its cause against the press of
modernity. Denominational disputes over slavery, as well as the impact of
the Civil War and Reconstruction eventually divided and weakened the
evangelicals. The combination of urbanization, immigration, and
industrialization also substantially changed the face of America and
eventually further weakened the control Protestants had over America.78
By the mid-nineteenth century, science also continued to further
influence religion and faith. Biblical criticism and the realization that the
books of the Bible were written by many authors at different times
throughout history, led to a struggle dividing Protestants into two groups.
Modernists accepted Biblical criticism, while fundamentalists held to their
beliefs of Biblical inerrancy.79
The 1859 publication of The Origin of Species by Charles Darwin
challenged Biblical literalism, the belief that every word of the Bible was
dictated by God and that the book is inerrant, to its very foundations. The
creation myth of Genesis in the Bible and the findings of science that life
had evolved without a supernatural creation were not seen as compatible.
If the evidence Darwin advanced that life had evolved over millions of
years were true, then Genesis could not be literally true. Darwin
recognized this and understood just what his findings implied and how
people would react. Indeed, he did not mention human evolution in The
Origin of Species.
The young man who had studied at Cambridge to become a cleric
must have found the shock of this discovery and realization overwhelming.
His intellectual honesty forced him to change his previously held belief in
Biblical creation. But it took years before he would risk the publication of
The Descent of Man (1871). In this, he argued humans, like finches,
evolved from other and much different forms of living things. Then, just as
today, fundamentalists viewed this science as a threat, as something
devised by bad people to lead good Christians astray.
As is true with many things of uncertain or complex origin, there are
wide ranging opinions as to just how modern fundamentalism evolved.
However, the American movement that came to be known specifically as
“Fundamentalism” began in the early twentieth century. In 1909, two
The Gathering Storm 35
Christian laymen began publishing The Fundamentals: A Testimony of
Faith, a series of booklets passed out to ministers, evangelists, and others.
The Fundamentals “demand[ed] that Christians accept the Bible as
‘revealed, inspired, infallible and inerrant.’”80 If the discoveries of science
contradicted any aspect of the Bible, fundamentalists’ determination was
the Bible was right and the claims of science wrong.
As San Francisco Chronicle religion writer Don Lattin pointed out,
fundamentalism arose as a reaction against reading the Bible liberally. This
is where Christians and scholars look at the Bible for its historical content,
rather than just as the unquestionable, literal word of God.81
The Fundamentals pamphlet series (1910), introduced the
Fundamentalist movement. It emphasizes five points Fundamentalism
came to be associated with:
1. The verbal inspiration of the Bible
2. The virgin birth of Christ
3. The substitutionary atonement of Christ
4. The bodily resurrection of Christ, and
5. The second coming of Christ82
In 1942, Fundamentalism gave way to the formation of the National
Association of Evangelicals. This somewhat less rigid outgrowth of
Fundamentalism, in terms of Biblical interpretation, also came to be
known as the “born-again” and “charismatic” movement.83 The more
puritanical members tended to maintain their identity with Fundamentalist
sects. While their very similar, but more worldly, counterparts came to be
associated with the evangelical sects and denominations, which are
recognized for their emphasis on the personal experience of conversion.84
By their fruits ye shall know them
Not all ancient thought, religious or otherwise, is primitive, outdated,
or wrong. But it becomes easier to recognize those who would rob us of
our hard-won freedoms by identifying and understanding their commonlyheld
beliefs, many of which are outdated in light of the evolution of society
and the arrival of the Information Age. There are certain features that are
common to all Christian fundamentalists, according to Nancy Ammerman,
Professor of Sociology and Religion at Hartford Seminary in Connecticut.
She was also one of the scholars on the Fundamentalism Project.
Fundamentalists, says Don Lattin, “believe that the Bible is literally true
and without error, stress evangelism, emphasize the approaching ‘end
36 The Fundamentals of Extremism
times’ and the second coming of Christ and practice separation from
nonbelievers.”85
Other common characteristics are seen in fundamentalists’ responses
to the uncertainties in life. They become reactionary, oversimplify or deny
realities, and do not allow their faith to be questioned.86 In consequence,
some fundamentalists, but not all, tend to avoid the secular world as they
look to a world to come. They also tend to believe truth is theirs alone. It
has been revealed to them by an all-controlling God that intervenes in all
matters of this world, acting favorably toward those who do not question
their faith. Fundamentalists are also most commonly identified with the
political right.
Regardless of these and other common features, coming up with a
clear profile of Christian fundamentalists has been virtually impossible.
This is because, as Lattin agrees, fundamentalists come in many forms.
Their variety of styles and beliefs can include such diverse denominations
and movements as Baptists, Pentecostals, Protestant and Catholic
evangelicals, and independent fundamentalist churches, among others.87
Even certain branches of such denominations as Presbyterians have their
fundamentalist congregations.
One of the key characteristics common to Christian fundamentalists is
their view on Biblical literalism. This provides some interesting paradoxes.
Evolution, according to this view, must be wrong. This is because
evolutionary theory, along with physics, geology, astronomy, and all
biological sciences, holds that the Earth is much older. Current evidence
indicates the Earth is approximately 4.5 billion years old, that life first
appeared about three billion years ago, and early humans evolved
approximately one million years ago.88 The Bible, in contrast, presents a
creation myth in which the Earth and every living thing were created in six
days. By counting the generations listed in the Bible from Adam to Jesus
to determine the number of years B.C. (before Christ), the age of Earth
could not exceed 6,000 to 10,000 years. When the facts don’t fit the
dogma, the literalists discard the facts.
Fundamentalists also want their belief system taught in schools
because the Bible says it should be. Yet, they want prayer in public schools
and arenas, even though public prayer is specifically forbidden by Jesus in
the Sermon on the Mount (Matthew 6:6). This paradox reveals what is
seen time and again by fundamentalists. They cling to Biblical inerrancy
and a literal interpretation of the Bible. But such views are only adhered to
when they support the fundamentalist purpose.
John Shelby Spong, an Episcopal bishop of Newark, fully and
articulately addresses the problem posed by fundamentalists’ literal and
The Gathering Storm 37
inerrant interpretation of the Bible. He points out the threat they pose to not
only faith in thought but also to thoughtful faith. His book, Rescuing the
Bible from Fundamentalism: A Bishop Rethinks the Meaning of Scripture
is, or should be, a deathblow to the idea a literal interpretation of the Bible
is “fundamental” to Christian faith. Indeed, there is certain urgency in his
appeal for reason in a modern world. He warns, “If it continues to be
viewed literally, the Bible, in my opinion, is doomed to be cast aside as
both dated and irrelevant.”89
Another common characteristic of fundamentalism is evangelizing, or
the practice of saving people from sin and eternal hellfire by zealously
preaching the gospel. This is seen in revival meetings, often held under
tents or in large arenas and, most recently, on television. Evangelizing is
predicated on a belief the end of the world is at hand and the second
coming of Christ near, at which time the saved, or the “born-again,” will
enter into heaven. The business of evangelizing is saving souls.
Perhaps the best-known and most successful example of the modern
evangelist is Billy Graham. He has been a counselor to several presidents
of the United States. Seeing him in person several times, I can attest he is a
world-class orator. The power he brings to the spoken word has an electric
and magnetic effect on audiences. He paints a visual image of the joys of
heaven that await the saved, and those who reject the free gift of salvation
glimpse a colorful view of the horrors of hell. Graham’s audiences number
in the thousands. They answer his altar calls to come forward and be
saved, while a magnificent choir repeats verses of the glorious Protestant
hymn, “Just As I Am,” by the hundreds. Millions of people have been
saved, many on more than one occasion, by Billy Graham.
Authoritarianism, the practice of requiring blind obedience, has been
widely recognized by scholars as another common feature among
fundamentalists. One can certainly be fundamentalist without being
authoritarian and vice versa. And it is uncertain whether authoritarians
mask as fundamentalists or fundamentalism leads to an authoritarian
personality. Regardless, there is a high incidence of the two traits
combined. This is seen as women and children have few, if any rights in
many fundamentalist homes, based on a literal reading of the Bible in
which men have all authority. God, identified in the Bible as male, issues
the laws, and men interpret and enforce them. All civilized societies
recognize the need for rules. Yet, Christian fundamentalists believe the
rules they impose have been handed down from God and obedience to
such rules must be maintained. Their authoritarian personality helps
explain why fundamentalists believe society must conform to their rigid
38 The Fundamentals of Extremism
views. At the same time, the nature of authoritarianism assists in
understanding some of the personality traits common to fundamentalists.
Gary Leak and Brandy Randall in the Journal for the Scientific Study
of Religion (1995) found that those who score high on the Rightwing
Authoritarianism scale have several tendencies. They are likely “to aggress
against unpopular or unconventional groups, feel morally superior and
self-righteous,” and “possess a mean-spiritedness that is coupled with
vindictiveness.”90 They often take “‘secret pleasure’ when others
experience misfortune and appear prejudiced toward out-groups.”91 These
negative traits are commonly seen in fundamentalists and will be revealed
in the following chapters. They can be better understood and more
appropriately dealt with by recognizing this connection.
The Second Coming of Christ is also associated with fundamentalism
and is most often seen in either pre-millennial or postmillennial beliefs.
Under pre-millennialism there are several competing theories dealing with
“the Rapture” and “the Tribulation.” The Rapture is the time when true
believers assume they will be lifted from the horrors of end-time
destruction. It is “a mass migration of living and dead, born-again
Christians . . . [who] will ascend through the air and meet Jesus Christ in
the sky.”92 Rapture is derived from the Latin word "rapare" and “means to
take away or to snatch out.”93 According to this view, “Pilots would
disappear from planes, truck drivers from their trucks; [and] people from
automobiles. . . .”94
The Tribulation is the belief the Antichrist will appear on Earth to
begin a seven-year period of utter misery. According to pre-millennialists,
the Second Coming of Christ will then occur in which he will rule for a
period of 1,000 years, known as the Millennium. There is theological
dispute over the timing of the Rapture. Some hold the Rapture occurs just
before the Tribulation. Others say the faithful will be raptured after the
horrors of the Tribulation. And others still, maintain the Rapture will take
place midway, or forty-two months into it. 95
Pre-millennialism has become the dominant of the end-time beliefs in
many Pentecostal and fundamentalist churches.96 Martin observes the premillennial
doctrine holds the view, “bad news—political anarchy, religious
apostasy, increased wickedness, earthquakes, plagues, and the like,” are a
sign of the Second Coming.97 It is perhaps for this reason James Watt, the
Secretary of the Interior under Reagan claimed, “We don't have to protect
the environment, the Second Coming is at hand.”98
Pre-millennialism generally fares better in bad times because it offers
hope for those who believe.99 The Rapture, in the eyes of the
fundamentalist, is a glorious moment for the chosen because it secures
The Gathering Storm 39
eternal salvation. Believers in Pre-millennialism imagine an Earth filled
with general mayhem, blood-filled rivers, nuclear war, and strange beasts
stalking the land.100 At the same time the righteous are transported to
heaven to meet Christ, nonbelievers are to be eternally damned.101 Mark
Twain, in his posthumously published Letters From the Earth,102 satirized
this view. He described the saved inhabitants of heaven looking down into
hell. These heavenly creatures took delight in watching the suffering of all
of the unsaved children, particularly those of different religions than the
blessed observers. Today, one can see bumper stickers proclaiming: “In
the event of the Rapture, this car will be unoccupied.”
The pre-millennial doctrine appears to contain an inherent flaw for the
fundamentalist believer, however. Christ can only return when things are at
their most horrendously sinful state. While many pre-millennialists look
forward to this wholeheartedly, at the same time, according to
ReligiousTolerance.org:
they tend to be very outspoken and active in their opposition to
abortion access, equal rights for homosexuals, pre-marital sex,
adultery, sex education in schools, access to physician assisted
suicide, the use of embryonic stem cells, etc. By their opposition
to these "hot" religiously controversial topics, they are delaying
Jesus' return to earth, the rapture and the 1,000-year
millennium.103
Dr. Edward Hindson, Dean of the Institute of Biblical Studies at
Liberty University, in “What Will It Be Like To Be Left Behind?” is a
typical example of the pre-millennialist. He relies upon the Biblical book
of Revelations in attacking the idea of a world at peace, a situation
fundamentalists see as an anti-Christian “New World Order”:
While the desire for peace clings to the deepest crevice of the
human heart, the prospects for global destruction are far greater
than the prospects for global peace. Undoubtedly, men will
continue to strive for peaceful solutions. But beyond the attempts
at peace is the final holocaust. Those who are left behind after the
Rapture will face a terrible future. . . . John’s description of the
trumpet judgments (Revelation 8:2-11:19) sounds very similar to
a global holocaust. The entire planet will be affected by massive
destruction, loss of life, and human suffering. The chaos that
results will destabilize both the global economy and the world
government predicted in chapter 13. . . . John the revelator paints a
40 The Fundamentals of Extremism
picture of global devastation. He sees the vegetation burned up, a
mountain of fire falling into the sea, stars falling from heaven and
the darkening of the sun by a thickened atmosphere. It is no
wonder that he hears an angel flying through heaven shouting,
‘Woe, woe, woe, to the inhibiters of the earth’ (8:13).104
This rhetoric is a common view among Christian fundamentalists today.
The world will be destroyed, as they insist, because of the evil of secular
humanists and those who do not conform to fundamentalism.
Modern Biblical scholarship and “form criticism,” or understanding a
text in terms of how and when it was created, might offer proof the book of
Revelations is an allegory written to give comfort to early Christians
suffering under Roman persecution. However, to the fundamentalist
mindset the last book of the Bible is seen and interpreted as true prophesy
that applies now, not to the time in which and to which it was written.
Postmillennialism, another commonly held end-time belief, is also
known as “Kingdom Now Theology,” “Dominion Theology,” and
“Christian Reconstruction.” It holds the Second Coming of Christ cannot
take place until the end of the millennium, a “glorious thousand-year
period.” Therefore, the Reconstructionist must transform society into the
moral society cleansed of all sin.105 Postmillennialism arose during the
early nineteenth century through the belief people could achieve social
perfection. It was thought massive religious revival, spiritual awakening,
and purification would convert the entire human race, including Jews, to
Christianity. It would be followed by a millennium of peace and
righteousness. Only following this millennium would Jesus return.
Christian Reconstructionists, such as the Chalcedon Foundation, disregard
the Rapture and Tribulation and actively promote postmillennial
doctrine.106
As these end-time beliefs indicate, superstitious thinking and belief in
magical happenings is more comforting to fundamentalists than facts—but
only religious magic. There is much fear among fundamentalists
pertaining to the popular Harry Potter series. Fundamentalists are
attempting to ban this series, just as a generation ago they attempted with
The Wizard of Oz. This is because in the absence, or in their denial, of
scientific explanations for aberrant behavior or unknown happenings,
fundamentalists believe there really are demons, witches, wizards, and
other mythical beings. These beings are capable of possessing people and
of being purged from them by medieval practices such as exorcisms. To
fundamentalists, the Harry Potter stories are not delightful fantasies but
dangerous truths that should be kept from impressionable children, who
The Gathering Storm 41
might otherwise adopt them. Dorothy and Toto should be banned because
their imaginary story might cause children to believe there can be good
witches. This suggests the hysteria of 1692 and the Salem witch trials are
not as far removed from our time as we might like to believe.
Lack of social responsibility is also frequently seen among
fundamentalists as they avoid seeking useful solutions to social problems.
They rely instead on ancient authority by looking to the Bible for passages
to explain the problems at hand. In less “rational” times, a common
practice of divination was to open the Bible at random and to find meaning
in the passage the finger first touched or the eye first beheld. Imagination
and creative symbolic interpretation would then find the answer. A similar
method was used by the less religious, but classically educated, by opening
the works of Virgil to find guidance for future planning or present
frustration.
It is fundamentalists’ belief in the rapture, of being protected from the
end-time disasters, that leads some to cling to their separatist world and to
avoid social responsibility.107 Some keep to themselves in almost pious
separation and isolation to avoid involvement with “the things of this
world.” They look to the world to come; and keep themselves, their
children, and their activities apart from the affairs of politics and social
action. To them, Earth is but a dwelling place, and all earthly activity is
devoted toward leaving this world of flesh and getting to their heavenly
home.
Another reason fundamentalists avoid social responsibility is, as Swift
points out, they “hold the view ‘God helps those who help themselves.’
The rich do, and the poor don’t.”108 Biblical literalists may justify this with
the passage in 2 Thessalonians 3:10, which is occasionally quoted on
bumper stickers: “this we commanded you, that if any would not work,
neither should he eat.” To the simplistic view of the fundamentalist,
persons in need are generally lazy and deserving of their lot in life. To
provide help would be to enable their laziness, as well as violate the
Biblical command.
This view cannot be reconciled with other Biblical teachings lauding
charity and the giving of alms to the poor. Yet, it is another of those
seeming contradictions of which fundamentalists do not concern
themselves. Charity may be permitted only from the church, not from the
state. The same fundamentalist who helps give out Christmas baskets to
the poor may well be opposed to any form of welfare or aid to the poor by
the state. Secularization to fundamentalists is seen as an evil, as something
referring to removing “religious control over social life” and the loss of
“control over personal decision.”109 Of interest, is the fact fundamentalist
42 The Fundamentals of Extremism
groups appear most willing to take government grants for their charitable
work, yet oppose the government bypassing them and aiding the poor
directly.
Nevertheless, while some fundamentalist groups want nothing to do
with this world, others want to control it and are known for taking political
action in an effort to mandate a Christian-based society. These groups
become politically active to the point of posing danger to individual rights
and to all of democracy. This has grown increasingly apparent in recent
years since fundamentalists have managed to commandeer the Republican
Party. Among the key goals, issues, and aims of politically-active
fundamentalist groups in America are opposition to abortion, gay rights,
pornography, sex education, the teaching of evolution, gun control, equal
rights for women, governmental regulation of environmental or industrial
activities and practices, separation of state and church, and the First
Amendment. They support prayer in public schools, the death penalty,
governmental use and display of religious slogans, governmentally-funded
“faith-based” charities, school “vouchers” for religious schools, teaching
the Bible story of creation in science class, and public display of the Ten
Commandments as a kind of magic talisman.
Many who are not religious fundamentalists may oppose or support
one or more items on this list. And there are fundamentalists who may not
oppose or support a particular issue as described. But as a rule,
fundamentalists are the main defenders of these issues, as stated.
Fundamentalist yearnings: new wine into old bottles
The fundamentalist craze seen over the last decade, as Jeffrey S.
Victor points out, is similar to times when there has been great social
change.110 The causes of fundamentalism, while complex, are most often
seen as rooted in the failed promise of modernity. This can be understood
as human progress that has taken place in recent centuries. The extreme
change in pace, especially during this century, has left people with constant
pressure to adapt their habits and beliefs. All of this confusion has created
the perfect environment for fundamentalism to breed.111
The yearning for the simple worldview offered by fundamentalism is
evidence of the strain that modernity, and what some have seen as the
dehumanization associated with it, imposes on people. Much that is new,
progressive, or contrary to tradition is distrusted and feared by
fundamentalists. But regardless of their fears and their desires to return to
the days of Ozzy and Harriett, fundamentalists still tend to make good use
of technology. Over the last few decades, the use of the modern invention
The Gathering Storm 43
of television, a delicious paradox, has also been employed by
fundamentalists. They use it to spread their message of the evils of
modernity and the errors of the scientific method.
A wave of Televangelism began in the 1960s after an FCC ruling
allowed television stations to air religious programs while still receiving
“‘credit’ for public interest broadcasting.” Televangelists associated
themselves with fundamentalism, preaching Biblical literalism and “literal
existence of the devil, hell, and the second coming.”112 Because many of
their viewers became unhappy with evangelical ministers who tried to
accommodate a somewhat more liberal society, these new televangelistfundamentalists
took a new approach. They believed it was their duty to
uphold public morality.113 Fundamentalists continue to do so with the
latest in technology and often with great skill, such as their use of
computers and the Internet for advancing messages condemning modern
society.
A second cause of fundamentalism stems from a life crisis or struggles
with life in general. Professor Elmer Towns, vice president of Liberty
University in Lynchburg, Virginia, and also a Christian fundamentalist,
“agrees that fundamentalism appeals to people who are experiencing a life
crisis.”114 And as Strozier indicates, even at its worst, Christian
fundamentalism provides hope to those who are at a disadvantage in
society.115 Fundamentalism offers certainty to a comfortable life after
death. This was especially appealing to Americans, at one time, who had a
life of “unrelieved hardship,” explained Norman F. Furniss, in The
Fundamentalist Controversy, 1918-1931.116 The poor, the handicapped,
the uneducated, and discriminated are likely to seek out fundamentalism.
That is because it promises not only life after death, but also because in
choosing fundamentalism, they become the chosen, the elite of God. This
brings a sense of importance and hope to those who are struggling with an
otherwise seemingly hopeless future. This could be seen in televangelism’s
early years as Southerners, the lesser educated, and the elderly took the
most interest in televangelists.117
Not all fundamentalists come from the lower strata of society,
however. A growing number of fundamentalists are wealthy business
people, powerful corporate owners, and the elite. What draws them to
fundamentalism is a psychological need for a “sense of identity, a sense of
stability, and a sense of belonging within a like-minded community of
purpose . . .”118 Fundamentalism offers fellowship and an end to loneliness
for affluent Americans who possess all the luxuries in our modern society,
but have yet to achieve true happiness.119
44 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Such was the state of President George W. Bush, who only found
meaning in life when he became “born-again,” a favorite phrase of the
fundamentalist. He expeditiously gathered fellow fundamentalists to his
aid in governing the country. U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft,
appointed by Bush, at taxpayer expense covered the exposed breast of the
Statue of Justice in Washington, D.C. He is reported to be using his office,
paid for by “We the People” to hold prayer and Bible study meetings.
Chuck Colson, ex-Watergate conspirator under President Nixon, became a
born-again Christian in prison. Apparently, prior to such rebirth he did not
know it was wrong to lie, cheat, and steal. Present U.S. Representative
Tom DeLay has credited Colson with motivating him to “get out of the
church, and into the streets, and standing for [God’s] worldview.”120
Understanding the nature of religious denominations and
fundamentalist sects offers insight into the reasons people often turn to
certain groups, especially fundamentalist sects. Denominations are
generally accepting of other religious beliefs and are comfortable with
society. Sects, on the other hand, break away from society and claim to be
the only true believers, or in this case, true Christians.121 Denominations,
because of their acceptance of diversity, do not generally search for new
members. Sects abhor diversity and therefore, find recruitment necessary
to convert society and gain conformity. Sects employ a variety of tactics to
recruit new members. Focusing on the strong social needs of the human
race, they hold friendly social functions as an attractive lure. 122 Another
draw is charismatic leaders. Some sects are more accurately personality
cults—sometimes leading to tragic and horrifying results. Consider the
mass suicides at Jonestown and among the Branch Davidians of Waco,
Texas, where followers adhered to the madness of their respective leaders,
Jim Jones and David Koresh.
Another recruitment tactic often used by fundamentalist leaders is the
use of oratory, similar to Jonathan Edwards who at one time “scared the
hell” out of audiences. Such rhetoric induces people, especially those who
are uncertain, afraid, and confused over the complexities of life, to leave
more established denominations. They seek protection from eternal fire
from a charismatic preacher.
A need for immediate and simple answers also can be a root cause of
fundamentalism. Scott Appleby explains fundamentalists “want some
simple truths for their personal lives.”123 They have difficulty with
complexity and uncertainty, and a literal reading of the Bible gives them
the immediate and simple answers they seek. As Appleby explains in
“Fundamentalism and Its Motivation,” “People feel out of control and
vulnerable” when they don’t have simple answers to life’s questions.124
The Gathering Storm 45
Unfortunately, as the Pontifical Biblical Commission states in The
Interpretation of the Bible in the Church:
The fundamentalist approach is dangerous, for it is attractive to
people who look to the Bible for ready answers to the problems of
life. It can deceive these people, offering them interpretations that
are pious but illusory, instead of telling them that the Bible does
not necessarily contain an immediate answer to each and every
problem.125
There are, of course, many other reasons people may be drawn to
fundamentalism as well. As Flo Conway and Jim Siegelman, authors of
Holy Terror: The Fundamentalist War on America’s Freedoms in
Religion, Politics and Our Private Lives argue, this fervor has less to do
with religion and more to do with power and control—and we are all
targets.126 This is a likely scenario for many fundamentalists. Further
research has suggested right wing authoritarianism may manifest itself as
religious fundamentalism. Fundamentalism, in turn, encourages and
reinforces the right-wing authoritarian personality.127
Furthermore, as some scholars have argued, fundamentalist
movements are patriarchists desperately “seeking to restore or secure
[their] ‘traditional’ position of privilege.”128 Given the present situation, the
potential for religious right-wing power and control of the American
government becomes something beyond a matter of academic interest.
Officials at the highest levels of government in the United States are
actually attempting to advance fundamentalist causes. If religious
authoritarians gain enough power, it may become a matter of survival.
In the shadow of the Puritans
Apart from the generalities discussed, attempting to define “Christian
fundamentalism” is like attempting to lasso smoke. It has the broad generic
characteristics that fit a number of conservative subgroups. Most Christian
fundamentalists are not members of, nor do they share the beliefs and
politics of, the more dangerous ultra-conservative groups. Those advocate
and practice lawless, aberrant, and pathological violence. It would be as
unfair to group all Christian fundamentalists with these criminals, as it
would be to claim all who follow the faith of Islam share the vision of the
murderous Taliban. All of the subgroups covered in the following chapters
and many more, can be understood to be fundamentalists. Nonetheless, not
all fundamentalists can be understood as being a part of all of those
46 The Fundamentals of Extremism
subgroups. Moreover, certain individuals can, and do, belong to more than
one subgroup.
Fundamentalists do share the general characteristics of looking back to
the old days and old ways as a model for a better life, a belief in the
inerrant truth of the Bible, and the view they have been correctly informed
by God. Yet, there is little the Amish communities share with the Army of
God, a fanatical group dedicated to bombing abortion clinics and killing
abortion providers. Members of the former make good friends and
neighbors. Members of the latter belong in prisons, or in hospitals for the
criminally insane. Many Christian fundamentalists are peaceful people
who would be horrified by the true nature of some of their fellow travelers
in faith. Regardless of those differences, for purposes of discussion, this
broad group, which combined poses a number of dangers to American
society, will be referred to as “fundamentalists.”
The term “fundamentalist” was first used specifically to define the
early 1900 movement that arose from the publication of The
Fundamentals. But in recent years, the term has come to loosely
encompass many Christian denominations and sects. Whether they choose
the label or not, many have characteristics which closely resemble, or in
some cases are identical, to those that adhere to the fundamentalist
doctrine. The current usage of the term “fundamentalist” (not capitalized
and used as an adjective or improper noun) has generally been accepted by
scholars as a descriptive term. It is used to discuss adherents and sects that
hold a number of similar characteristics to those that are defined by the
proper noun, “Fundamentalist.” Therefore, unless capitalized, the term
“fundamentalist” throughout this book is used as a general descriptive to
refer to any Christian who demonstrates most, if not all of the following
characteristics:
?? A belief in Biblical inerrancy or a literal interpretation of the
Bible.
?? Practices separation from nonbelievers or acts politically,
specifically for imposing religion or Christian-based ideals on
society.
?? Attributes most or everything in life to divine intervention.
?? Emphasizes end times and the Second Coming of Christ.
?? Practices evangelism.
?? Is authoritarian in nature and holds there are absolute truths to all
issues, regardless of circumstance.
The Gathering Storm 47
Politically active fundamentalists may also be referred to as the “New
Right” or, as has become common in recent years, the “Christian Right” or
“religious right.” This consists of not only born-again Protestants, but also
Catholics who are focused on traditional views.
The development, characteristics, and causes of fundamentalism, as
described, offer an awareness necessary to understanding fundamentalism
and the dangers it presents. Fundamentalists, perhaps more than most, fear
death and feel insecure when confronted by departures from the old ways.
Although fundamentalists are sure they know what is right and wrong in
the world, they are very pessimistic because they live in a world where
they have no control.129 This poses problems as they come to “believe that
the Bible provides unambiguous answers to all moral questions, and they
contrast the purity within the church to the wickedness without.”130 They,
therefore, reject situational morality and think certain moral absolutes
apply in all situations and for all people at all times.
For this reason, fundamentalists desire the Ten Commandments to be
posted in public places. Yet, many may not even know what the
Commandments say or that they are found lacking for today’s society.
What fundamentalists know is that the Commandments are considered
holy and they are, therefore, used not necessarily as a guide to behavior,
but as a magic talisman to ward off evil. Such thinking creates a dangerous
potential.
Regardless of modernization’s effects on society, the pace is only
going to increase. Therefore, the growth in fundamentalism is also likely to
continue. As Strozier reveals, because fundamentalism touches on such
ultimate issues, it is likely to resist being tamed and could quickly expand
in the event of a crisis131 such as what was seen on September 11, 2001.
Since that day, there has been a resurgence in calls for organized prayer in
public schools, posting of the Ten Commandments in public places, and a
religious outpouring from public officials. America may have gotten the
Puritans, but their vision for the country was not written into the U.S.
Constitution.
Still, America is home to their spiritual descendents and secularists
must unhesitatingly continue to remind them, as did our ancestors, of the
wholly secular nature of our Constitution, and therefore, government. To
do otherwise is to defile the graves of our martyrs.
48
Chapter 3
LITTLE ONES TO HIM BELONG
by Bobbie Kirkhart
Our goal is not to make the schools better. . . . the goal is to hamper them,
so they cannot grow. . . . Our goal as God-fearing, uncompromised . . .
Christians is to shut down the public schools . . . step by step, school by
school, district by district.132
Robert Thoburne in The Children Trap
“The rod and reproof give wisdom…”133
Larry Slack was a Chicago Transit Authority machinist, his wife,
Constance, a nurse in a children’s hospital. Most of all, the couple was
devoutly religious. They headed a strict Jehovah’s Witness family,
protecting their six children from outside influences by home schooling
them. The Slacks did not allow their children to play with others in their
South Side neighborhood of Chicago. Neighbors reported seeing the
family only on Sunday morning, as the Slacks headed to church. The
Slacks’ home, their marriage, their children were all dedicated to the
service of their god.
On November 10, 2001, the family was getting ready to head out for
dinner, a special Saturday night treat. However, Constance could not find
her jacket where her wallet and credit cards had been left, so she and Larry
told the children to look for it. The children were not trying very hard. So,
Larry picked up a three-quarter inch cable, and gave the youngest, eightyear-
old Lester, a few thumps on the buttocks and leg.
But, that didn’t seem to help. The problem was that dirty clothes were
scattered all over the house, and twelve-year-old Laree, who was
responsible for the laundry, had not done her job. So, using the same cord,
Larry gave Laree four or five hits, until she tried to squirm away. Then,
Larry told the two teenage boys to tie her, face down, to a metal futon
Little Ones to Him Belong 49
frame. He gave her thirty-nine whacks to the back, counting, as he later
explained, because he wanted to adhere to the Biblical edict of forty lashes
minus one. He then handed the cord to Constance, who added twenty
wallops.
Laree started to scream, so Larry ordered the boys to bring him a
towel, and he stuffed it in her mouth. He tied a scarf around her head,
securing the towel, and then tightened the scarf with a stick, as with a
tourniquet. He removed her shirt, and told the other children to pull off her
pants as he prepared to administer thirty-nine more strikes. Constance
followed by adding twenty. But things just were not going right. Laree’s
back was bleeding; so Larry turned her over, and administered the final
thirty-nine smacks. Laree died within an hour of being checked into the
hospital.
Religious affiliation, according to a 1974 report in American
Sociological Review by H. Erlanger, has been found to be a better predictor
of violent behavior toward children than age, gender, social class, or size of
residence.134 Conservative religions are found the most violent. Indeed, the
fundamentalist is correct in saying the Bible prescribes corporal
punishment. Reasonable Christians and Jews, however, recognize a 5,000-
year-old code of childrearing does not apply today. The Old Testament,
after all, glorifies violence of all kinds, and worships a god who would kill
children for making fun of a prophet.135 It is a collection that includes both
wisdom and poetry, but it is not an anthology modern humanity can read
literally.
For those who do take it literally, a child is a beast to be tamed, not a
person to be taught. Religious conservatives talk about the “problem” of
willful children. To them, children need to learn obedience, not so much
through trust as through fear. Proverbs 22:15 is consistent with the concept
of original sin, the belief all children are born with the sin of Adam, as well
as with other scripture. It proclaims, “Folly is bound up in the heart of a
child, but the rod of discipline drives it far from him.”136
The belief in male dominance is a Biblical tenet, and a fundamentalist
conviction that is also closely related to child abuse. In The Battered Child,
noted physicians and child-protection advocates, Ray E. Helfer and C.
Henry Kempe are cited. They report, “the assault rate on children of
parents who subscribe to the belief of male dominance is 136 percent
higher than for couples not committed to male dominance.”137
In addition, social psychologist Henry Danso, in “The Role of Parental
Religious Fundamentalism and Right-wing Authoritarianism in Child-
Rearing Goals and Practices,” cites agreement with other research.138 They
agree that child discipline by corporal punishment is linked to religious
50 The Fundamentals of Extremism
conservatism.139 Although this could be because of certain Biblical
scriptures, they point out it can also be attributed to authoritarian
personality types, a trait common among fundamentalists of all religions.
Harsh corporal punishment is not limited to the home, however. State
law, which usually forbids teachers and school administrators from hitting
public school students, often puts the religious institutions out of reach.
This can be devastating to those most dependent on their caretakers. The
New York Times reports “roughly” fifteen states have religious exemptions
for daycare centers, or residential academies. Although some have virtually
no regulation, “the exemptions are often fashioned in a more shaded
manner. Religious groups agree to follow basic health and safety
requirements in exchange for being allowed to teach, discipline, and hire as
they please.”140
Irwin Hyman of Temple University's National Center for the Study of
Corporal Punishment and Alternatives says that although data are inexact,
his perceptions are that spanking in educational institutions is decreasing,
even among Catholic schools, which have been known to rely heavily on
corporal punishment in the past. Still, “it is increasing in the Christian
academies with a fundamentalist bent.”141
Fundamentalist Christian schools, like the homes their students come
from, are often unbending in their determination to keep to scriptural
punishment. Pediatrician Dr. Eli Newberger recalls testifying in a South
Carolina case. A nine-month old baby had been spanked to the point of
bruising because he was crying. This happened during his first week in the
church-run day-care center, a time when an infant would be expected to
cry. The state offered to allow the center to remain open if it would stop
corporal punishment, but the minister refused on Biblical grounds.142
In Arizona, parents gave permission to a religious school to subject
their children to whippings. A teenager reported the principal stripped her,
and beat her in her mother’s presence, as the three of them prayed. The
principal was arrested. In the investigation, it came out the principal had
been charged with child abuse before, yet many parents still supported
him.143
In rural Missouri, the Heartland Christian Academy used what the
New York Times described as “old-time religion and old-fashioned
discipline to try to save the lives and souls of its students.” As was
revealed, “The teachers do not spare the rod—here, it is a paddle—and
they expect children to pray.”144 Paddling did not work for infractions such
as not paying attention or talking back to their teachers. So, eleven teen-age
students were taken to a nearby dairy farm and forced to stand in pits of
Little Ones to Him Belong 51
cow dung.145 In June of 2001, five staff members were charged with child
abuse for that incident.
Later, four were charged with hitting a child with a board. In October
of the same year, 115 children were removed after a runaway reported
abuse in which a boy’s eardrum was injured. Accounts of the incident
varied, but the Heartland employee involved refused to talk with police,
and the school would not fire him. The Heartland founder and director
wrote to parents “local juvenile officials have undertaken a destructive
campaign to destabilize this nurturing environment.”146
Because no American law labels spanking by parents as abusive in
itself, and because the privacy of the home often protects abusive parents
from interference, less is known about the scope of parents hitting children
in the home. While abuse that does not result in death may be prosecuted,
it rarely becomes a matter of public discussion.
One exception, because it involved so many families, is the House of
Prayer in Atlanta, Georgia. Originally, forty-nine children were removed
from congregants’ homes, but most were returned when parents, after
some resistance, agreed to obey the judge’s orders. This included promises
not to allow the minister to spank the children or to take their underage
daughters out of the state for marriage. Both of these had been practices of
the church. Member David Wilson took issue with the judge's instructions
to visit his children in their foster homes, and to take a parenting class.
"We'll take the visitation," he told her, "but only if they bring her to our
house." He added he and his wife did not need a parenting class because
the Bible already instructed them in disciplining children.147
Although some fundamentalists advocate methods of corporal
punishment which are, by any reasonable definition, child abuse, the best
known emphasize some restraint in hitting children. Marvin Munyon of
the religiously conservative Family Research Forum in Madison,
Wisconsin, demonstrated the “proper” way to spank. He said, “You spank
them right here in the gluteus maximus, which God made for that
purpose.” This quote was repeated on at least one sado-masochistic
website,148 but the Bible verses Munyon cited throughout his two and onehalf
hour lecture did not make the news reports.149
In more cautious fashion, James Dobson of Focus on the Family
sounds moderate when he says:
Spanking can be a valuable disciplinary tool—if it is administered
appropriately. It is essential to always balance firmness with
loving sensitivity. Indeed, spanking is not appropriate for every
child or at every age, and is unnecessary in many situations. For
52 The Fundamentals of Extremism
example, willful disobedience or defiance of authority might
warrant corporal punishment, while mere childish irresponsibility
does not. When spankings are properly managed, there is no
reason to fear they will produce harmful emotional or
psychological effects in children.150
Dobson fails to add the considerable evidence, of which he must be aware,
that the spanking he advocates is rarely effective in the long-run and
frequently leads to harsher measures, developing into child abuse.
While it is clear fundamentalists are not alone among Americans who
spank their children, they, unlike others, are not allowed to reexamine this
method when its ineffectiveness becomes obvious. Fundamentalists are
virtually alone in holding an explicit belief that the welfare of the child is
secondary to the rule of Biblical discipline. For the most part, American
society and government have forsaken the children of these zealots. It
trusts in the scant mercies of the parents, who often hide their own
misbehavior in their country’s respect for the privacy of families.
More than sixty percent of Americans believe in spanking children,151
in spite of the fact childrearing professionals and educators almost
universally censure the practice. The American Academy of Pediatrics
strongly condemns spanking. So do the American Psychiatric Association
and the National Educational Association.152 Punishment by hitting
children is illegal in at least nine developed countries. Not many parents
would espouse the philosophy “might makes right” to their children. Yet,
many demonstrate that idea with a few painful swats on the buttocks.
Beyond the philosophical objections, spanking is both ineffective and
dangerous, forewarning possible misbehavior of both parent and child. It is
unlikely many mothers and fathers would hit their children if they
understood what a risky habit it is, if they knew it often leads to
disciplinary problems as the child grows, and is tied to serious emotional
difficulties in adulthood.
In the United States, this information is available to only the most
highly-educated families or those in the rare communities and school
systems where adequate funds are allocated to parenting resources. At best,
others think the concept is truly controversial. This is in part a result of the
Christian Right’s lobbying through such “educational” institutions as
Focus on the Family. The organization offers advice on more than 3,000
North American radio stations. The professional community has offered
official studies and reports but these are accessible to few, and the
professional community has not been proactive in educating parents.
Little Ones to Him Belong 53
Perhaps it hesitates to confront directly anyone’s sincerely-held religious
beliefs.
Wendy Walsh in Family Relations magazine explored the sources of
information people rely on in making the decision to spank or not to spank.
She writes her most important finding overall points to the need for
childcare professionals to increase their efforts to educate.
For this chapter, also significant was that mothers who spank were
only slightly more likely to consider the advice of their religious leader
important. Despite this, they were much more prone to cite their cleric as
favoring spanking.153 This suggests that perhaps religious beliefs are
sometimes used to condone inappropriate behaviors that are difficult to
change. In fact, some of the appeal of conservative religions is they insist
the old ways of relating to each other are better.
Numerous studies link spanking to aggressive and antisocial behavior
in childhood and adulthood. Murray Straus of the University of New
Hampshire found that mothers who spanked even once during a one-week
period, when questioned two years later, reported more antisocial behavior
of their children than did those mothers who had not spanked.154
Repeated studies have shown when the spanking of children with
serious behavior problems is discontinued, their antisocial behavior
decreases. In addition, a 1999 Canadian study, the largest ever on
spanking, showed adults who were spanked or hit as children are twice as
likely to suffer from an anxiety disorder as their peers who were never
spanked. Drug and alcohol abuse rates were also found to be high among
those who had been spanked, as was depression.155
Correlation is not causation, however, and when care is taken to
separate infrequent open-handed spanking of young children from
frequent, severe, or abusive spanking, the effects are less clear.
Psychologist Diana Baumrind concluded in her twelve-year study with
colleague Elizabeth Owens the negative associations with spanking were
few. She attributes them to other aspects in the parent-child relationship.
Nevertheless, Dr. Baumrind does not endorse spanking, and Dr. Straus,
while praising her study, added, ''There is not absolutely conclusive
evidence [that nonabusive spanking of young children is harmful], but
there is very strong evidence, and there's strong evidence that other
methods work just as well.''156
Despite Dr. Baumrind’s concerns, the research deals primarily with
nonabusive spanking by loving parents. While it is possible some
spankings were more malevolent than reported, there is no reason to doubt
the vast majority of spankings were as innocent as they were portrayed.
Our society does not consider frequent spanking or spanking of an older
54 The Fundamentals of Extremism
child abusive, although Dr. Baumrind excluded these practices from her
study of benign spanking.
There is some evidence, however, spanking may also increase the
aggressive behavior of the parent. Those who spank are four times more
likely to physically abuse their children as those who do not.157
Undoubtedly, some part of this statistical linkage can be attributed to the
fact parents who abuse are more likely to spank. It also reflects the fact
spanked children are more likely to misbehave, perhaps causing those
parents who have meager disciplinary tools to snap.
Why, then, with all this information, do Americans believe in
spanking? In addition to the fact the data are not generally available, there
are several reasons loving parents may resist facing the facts about
spanking. Attempts to change child-rearing patterns are always difficult.
People usually want to raise their children the way they were raised.
Perhaps more important, spanking is quick and easy, traits valued by
today’s typical American family that finds time in short supply. Corporal
punishment often gets the desired short-term result. One thing is clear
from the overwhelming evidence against spanking: No god of love
prescribes hitting helpless children.
Lot’s daughters
‘Father Porter’s coming, Father Porter’s coming.’ The warning
flew down the quiet corridors of St. Mary’s Grammar School
whenever one of the girls saw the priest approaching. Then, as if
on cue, dozens of girls in bobby socks and skirts that always
covered their knees fled the center of the hallway for the walls,
pressing their backs against the hard, cold tile. They knew that if
you didn’t turn your back from Porter, he couldn’t [sic] sneak up
and grab you from behind. If you didn’t turn your back, he
couldn’t [sic] get his hands under your skirt. No one taught the
polite parochial school girls these rules…[T]hey just knew. They
learned from experience.158
Fundamentalist religion shows up as a risk factor for sexual abuse in
many studies, most likely due to a number of characteristics of
conservative religions. In addition, among the generally accepted risk
factors for victimization of sexual abuse are two, independent of religion,
which arguably, correlate with fundamentalist families: a high degree of
isolation and a dysfunctional family. Such supposed correlations do not
explain, however, the direct link between victimization and religion.
Little Ones to Him Belong 55
A 1988 study suggested three characteristics of families at high risk for
sexual abuse. These directly correlate with fundamentalist ideals. First,
fundamentalists often have a patriarchal family structure, with the man as
owner of the family. Second, all sex may also be considered sinful, which
confuses the distinction most make between acceptable and unacceptable
sexual behavior. Third, sexual activity within families becomes hidden
behind a curtain of secrecy no one wants to talk about.159 In these
associations, a cause-and-effect relationship seems virtually certain, though
one could argue which is cause and which is effect.
Usually, when one mentions child sexual abuse in the context of
religion, people immediately think of the Catholic problem with priestly
pedophilia. This is a scandal of global proportions, which has resulted in an
estimated $1 billion in settlements.160 In the Boston archdiocese alone,
between seventy and ninety priests were implicated. Because the horrible
scope of the problem is well known, there is no need to offer additional
detail here, but it should be noted this does indeed belong in a discussion of
fundamentalist sexual abuse. Theologian James Seghers offers this
definition:
What is called Catholic Fundamentalism refers to those who
would cite Conciliar documents, Papal encyclicals and the
Catechism of the Catholic Church in a very literal sense to support
authentic Catholic teaching and practices.161
While this definition does not include most American Catholics and
does not apply to all Catholic clerics, it inarguably applies to the church
itself. It is the authoritarian, closed, absolutist hierarchy that has allowed,
and to a degree promoted, the disgrace the church faces today. Although
neither the offending priests nor their victims are necessarily
fundamentalists, the philosophy of the church certainly influences the
tragedy of clerical molestation.
The church structure clings to each of the three risk factors, which
enable and perhaps promote abuse. These factors include patriarchy, with
the priest addressed as Father. All sex is sinful, with the vow of celibacy.
And secrecy dominates the confessional and permeates much Catholic
practice. This is in spite of the exceptions the Church has been forced to
make.
For these reasons, priestly pedophilia deserves inclusion in any
inventory of fundamentalist behavior. In their book, A Gospel of Shame,
writers Frank Bruni and Elinor Burkett seem to agree. Citing a lack of
flexibility within the hierarchy, they write, “Child sexual abuse has become
56 The Fundamentals of Extremism
a scandal within the Catholic Church . . . because it is embedded in the
very structure of Roman Catholicism.”162 It should be noted the treatment
of children by lay Catholics is not included in this chapter by virtue of their
Catholicism. But, it may be included when the families meet other criteria
for fundamentalism.
Among Christians, Catholics are not alone in clerical sexual
misbehavior. Indeed, when all forms of sexual misconduct by clergy are
considered—not just those with children—the denominations are about
equal, and the incidence across the board is high. Still, psychotherapist
Gary Schoener, who specializes in the field, notes mainline Protestants
have been the quickest and most decisive in their response, while
fundamentalists have been the slowest and least aggressive.163
The statistical connection between sexual abuse and fundamentalist
Christians is dramatic. Jackie J. Hudson, author of Characteristics of the
Incestuous Family, explains sexual abuse is normally higher among
stepfathers than biological fathers. But in conservative Christian families,
the incest rate is so high, the rate of sexual abuse by biological fathers is
higher than by stepfathers in the general population.164
Hudson contends, “the religious right promotes attitudes toward
women that allow for a tolerance of sexual abuse in our society today.”
She cites many studies offering reasons for this,165 noting Cohen and Jehu,
who say that fathers who molest their daughters generally see women and
children as their property.166 And according to several other
sociologists,167 explains Hudson, fundamentalist fathers believe “women
and children should be subordinate to men and that children should be
obedient to parents.”168
The fundamentalist father expects unquestioning, automatic
obedience, and such is usually motivated by fear. These father figures are
usually autocratic, patriarchal, or dictatorial. Hudson notes the mothers of
incest victims are generally women who are submissive169 or
subservient.170
Perhaps the study most relevant to this discussion is Religiosity and
Child Sexual Abuse: A risk factor assessment, published in 1997. The
authors surveyed 416 freshmen at a university in the southern part of the
United States. Noting some theological difficulties with the term
fundamentalist, they used the combined label evangelical/fundamentalist
Protestant denomination. They asked not only about religious affiliation,
but also about degree of family involvement in religious activities.171
The authors expected most people have had some sexual experience
they might have found unpleasant. So, questionnaires were very specific as
to whether the students had been victims of explicitly illegal sexual
Little Ones to Him Belong 57
actions by adults. Status crimes, such as statutory rape of a willing
participant by a slightly older boyfriend, were not included. In addition to
religion, respondents were measured on a scale of the family’s social
isolation.172
The first look at the data showed an interesting paradox. The child’s
risk of sexual abuse increased as the family's denomination became more
fundamentalist, but as religious activity increased, the risk of abuse
decreased. A lower level of participation correlated with family isolation,
an abuse risk factor found in several previous studies.173 When separate
graphs were made for victims of abuse within the family, and for victims
of non-relatives, the pattern became much clearer. The correlation between
denomination and victimization by a family member was pronounced and
increased as the family’s denomination became more conservative.
There was no correlation between degree of religious activity and
incestuous victimization. The risk of victimization by a non-relative
increased as the family’s religious activity decreased. This was most likely
because the decrease in religious activity correlates with isolation. 174 The
authors make the point correlation does not prove cause and effect, and
incestuous adults may be attracted to fundamental religions, rather than
created by them.175 It seems most people would agree.
The abuser likely believes the deviant sexual behavior to be an
outgrowth of his or her religion, rather than the cause of it. Indeed, the need
to molest children may be perceived as a commandment from God. One
case involves the most infamous pattern of child abuse in recent decades,
David Koresh and the Branch Davidians. Follower David Thibodeau’s
account may be suspect and is at odds with more objective accounts in
several areas. Still, his description of the seduction of adolescent virgins, an
act he clearly disapproved of, rings true, if not as an objective narrative of
actions, as a subjective account of the way those involved perceived the
events.
Koresh professed to have had a vision in Jerusalem, telling him to
father a child with his wife’s eleven-year-old sister. He claimed to be
disturbed by this vision, to resist obeying it. His wife, of course,
disapproved of the idea. They struggled internally and with each other for
more than a year. Then David’s wife had a dream threatening dire
consequences if David did not follow his vision. 176 No one knows, of
course, what really went on in this man’s twisted mind, but it seems
unlikely he looked in the mirror and said, “I think I can satisfy my craving
for young girls if I say it is God’s will.” Still it does not seem unlikely,
something beneath his conscious mind drew exactly that conclusion.
58 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Perhaps it makes little difference how pedophiles rationalize their
behavior, but it is clear from the data many have found in fundamentalist
religions a safe structure to house their proclivities. While it would go
beyond unfairness to paint all fundamentalists with this broad brush, there
is enough information to hold the institutions accountable for their
problems and to demand they find effective means, not just
commandments and sermons, to combat this—their dirtiest open secret.
Every state has laws requiring authority figures, such as doctors and
teachers, to report suspected child abuse, but twenty-four states exempt the
clergy from this obligation.177
Train up a child in the way he should go178
The new chancellor, in office less than three months, was a dynamo.
Taking advantage of the emergency powers granted him, he was
determined to restore a law-abiding and religious attitude to the country.
On April 26, 1933, Adolph Hitler set up the Gestapo, but his speech
concerned itself with the youth and, most likely, with his negotiations with
the church, as he informed his countrymen:
Secular schools can never be tolerated because such schools have
no religious instruction, and a general moral instruction without a
religious foundation is built on air; consequently all character
training and religion must be derived from faith . . . we need
believing people.179
Nothing frightens the perpetrator of a bad idea so much as education.
And clearly, fundamentalists are against true education, particularly in its
etymological meaning, “leading out.” But, it is fair to say America’s oncestrong
commitment to public education has changed because, as the
religious right points out, public education has changed.
Some of the difference troubling much of our society has little or
nothing to do with religion. Brown v. Board of Education, and subsequent
rulings requiring equal education for all brought about more diverse, and
therefore more challenging, classrooms. The cultural revolution of the
1960s not only brought into the school the history of minorities in this
country; it also suggested pride in one's ethnic group. This opened the
dominant culture and the traditional version of history to criticism, bringing
controversy to the social studies class that had once taught only one
version of events. Additionally, the feminist movement of the 1970s made
high-quality, low-cost teaching virtually impossible to obtain, thereby
Little Ones to Him Belong 59
raising the cost of quality education. However, to the fundamentalist
parent, the definitive blow was the school prayer decision of 1963.
Conservative Christians have a point about the historical purpose of
public education, which in this country had often meant Protestant
education, from the Puritan schools on. Our great push to widespread
public education in the latter part of the nineteenth century was a response
to immigration. These new Americans were mostly Jews and Catholics,
and we feared our culture was threatened if we did not instill Protestant
values in the newcomers.
The famous McGuffy’s Readers of the 1800s mentioned the word
God, every third page on average,180 proving religion was not forbidden in
school; however, it was kept to the “right” kind. The Fourteenth
Amendment had been passed, extending the guarantees of the Bill of
Rights to cover state law. But interpretations of it remained very narrow,
limited to the “due process” clause for decades to come. Not only was
Protestant teaching allowed in public schools, it was encouraged.
Catholics responded to this by setting up their own schools to replace
the public system, while, most Jews used the public system, adding their
own after-school Hebrew classes to teach language and religion. Indeed,
on matters of faith, general observations are that Catholics have maintained
church loyalty to a much higher extent than Jews. This perhaps supports
the fundamentalist idea that an education that does not support a religion
undermines it.
Regardless, fundamentalist responses are largely divided into attempts
to control their own children’s education, and attempts to control all
children’s education. In the former, no group has been more successful
than the Amish, who operate their own schools, where teachers typically
have only an eighth-grade education. This is all the schooling the children
are offered, as well. There is rarely homework because the children are
required to do chores, typically farm labor, after school. Science is not even
a curricular subject.
The Amish fund their own schools with little or no government
subsidy and do not try to influence the public schools, so most Americans
seem willing to overlook these practices. Yet, these would be considered
gross instances of educational neglect and serious violations of child labor
laws if they occurred outside a religious context. That the schools are
designed to allow exploitation of child labor, and to ensure the child will
not leave the community as an adult is no secret. In 1972, the Supreme
Court decided to allow this practice. Justice Warren Burger wrote that a
high school education is “irrelevant” to the lives of Amish children and
would make it impossible for them to continue as Amish.181
60 The Fundamentals of Extremism
One can hardly imagine a small urban ethnic cluster making this
argument. Consider members of an ethnic group putting their children to
work in their stores. Suppose they were to teach their children communally
by an older child and take them from all instruction in the early teen years
so that they are free to help with the demands of commerce. For some
reason most Americans find the Amish charming, and few question the
Amish’s right to ensure their children will never be able to survive outside
the closed community.
Other fundamentalist private schools are harder to generalize about.
As in the comparisons with public schools, private schools tend to be
lumped together. Although many seek outside accreditation, they do not
accept the more rigorous standards of state oversight. Many states exempt
private schools from teacher credentialing requirements, as well.
Religious schools are the largest portion of private schools, with
Catholic schools making up thirty-two percent and “other” religious
schools forty-seven percent. Twenty-one percent are secular.
Approximately eleven percent of the total elementary and secondary
school population is in private schools .182
The political push for vouchers would benefit religious schools,
perhaps more than other private schools. In Cleveland, where its voucher
system has been approved by Supreme Court, almost ninety-nine percent
of the voucher students are in religious schools. In other voucher programs,
the religious dominance is repeated, both in schools accepting vouchers,
and in the schools of choice for parents who use vouchers. The majority of
these schools are Catholic, but they include a large number of Christian
fundamentalist schools, and a growing number of Muslim schools.
In fundamentalist schools, one can be sure sex education and biology
courses are simplified, compared to the public school curricula. There is
some reason to believe they usually do an adequate, although not
exemplary, job of teaching the lower-level basic skills. Test scores reported
by the National Assessment of Educational Progress show a comparison of
public and private school students, when adjusted for parents’ income,
reflects no difference in student achievement. Yet, private schools have the
ability to reject applicants, to require parental involvement, and to expel
problem students. When one considers the other statistical advantages, this
suggests most of the private schools are not doing the job they claim.
All states have reporting laws requiring professionals who work with
children to report instances of neglect or abuse. Yet, there is anecdotal
evidence that failure to report violations in the school is more likely in
private schools of all kinds. This is because economic pressures may
motivate administrators to avoid scandal at all cost. The fundamentalist
Little Ones to Him Belong 61
philosophy that children have few, if any, rights, and that the school is for
the glory of God may well add to the pressure to cover up scandal. It then
seems more than likely reporting standards are not up to the usuallyrigorous
practice as in public schools.
Unfortunately, the exemptions many states offer to religious
residential academies allow abusers to continue functioning, even after
they have been identified. For example, Mountain Park Baptist Boarding
Academy left Mississippi in 1987, due to problems with juvenile
authorities. It moved to Missouri, and operated without difficulty until
1998, when a student was killed by a classmate.183
The fastest-growing alternative to public schools is the home
schooling movement. This has gained wide acceptance in recent years.
USA Today reported in 1985, sixteen percent of Americans approved of
home schooling; as approval went upwards steadily, by 2001, forty-one
percent approved.184 Certainly home schoolers and their supporters are not
all fundamentalists. In fact, there is an on-line e-group for atheist parents
who home school.
Most of these join many other home schoolers in believing the highlypersonalized
methods are simply better educationally, although a common
complaint among these atheists is the religion promulgated on their
children in the public schools. Their anecdotes vary from the expected
“under God” in the flag salute to the subjective, “the other kids are always
proselytizing.” Occasionally there is an outrageous reality, the teacher is
ignoring the curriculum and teaching religion as fact.
Still, the typical home schooling parent is white, Protestant, with
above-average income and education. When only one reason for home
schooling is elicited, the most common reason for the decision is the
importance home schooling parents put in religious education. One might
expect virtually all home schooling parents include in their reasoning they
believe they can provide a better education. Interestingly, in a 1999 survey,
although this was the most popular reason cited, it was included by slightly
fewer than half of the parents. This is in spite of more than one answer
being allowed. Religion was a close second at thirty-eight percent, and
undoubtedly overlapped the fifteen percent who chose character building
and the twelve percent who objected to what the school teaches.185
While home schooling parents’ education is usually above the
average,186 in only ten states are parents required to have a high school
diploma or general equivalency diploma to home school. It has been found
that almost nineteen percent of home schooling parents did not finish high
school.187
62 The Fundamentals of Extremism
There is no question home schooled children may do well
academically. Home schooling proponents point to the large percentage of
spelling bee and geography champions who have been home schooled.
Unfettered by curriculum mandates, those parents whose ambition for their
children lies in these subjects have a huge advantage in home schooling. It
is more difficult to make sense of the “average,” however. Proponents
point to relatively high percentiles on SAT and ACT scores, and on
various “norming” tests. Indeed, they are impressive, but they reflect a selfselected
minority of home-schooled students.
On the other hand, by its nature, home schooling is nonconformist and
individualized. So neither universal nor random samples are attainable. It
should be noted that there is good evidence home schooling frequently
offers above-average basic education: reading, arithmetic, traditional
grammar, and such. Among educators and child development specialists,
the biggest concern with home schooling is the lack of social experience,
both inside and outside the classroom. Many home schoolers form
collectives for providing enrichment activities, such as field trips, and enter
their children in such things as group dance class or group sports. But the
interaction provided is structured and controlled, lacking the diversity the
child will face in the workforce and without even the limited freedom of
speech and association present in the high school hallway.
Many home schooling parents see this as an advantage. But if it is an
advantage, it is not one an adult can maintain and still enjoy the full
mobility, cultural opportunity, and freedom our society has to offer.
Educators point out peer interaction is a valuable and necessary component
of a good academic lesson plan. Class discussion, oral reports, and
cooperative learning assignments such as small group projects are
important segments of the modern classroom day. Most teachers consider
them vital to a total educational experience. Some of the reasons this is true
may in fact be among fundamentalists' objections to public education. Peer
interaction increases creativity and critical thinking skills. It is a teacher’s
job to tell the students what is required, so students may meet the
expectations.
But when one is trying to please fellow students, there is no clear line,
no “this is the answer they want” to seek. In class discussion, students have
some social protection if they want to question the authority of the
teacher’s statement or the instructional materials. This is a practice good
teachers encourage, as it forces the student to look critically at the issues
and take ownership of his or her own ideas.
The time pressures home schooling puts on parents are enormous,
particularly when one considers sixty-two percent of all home schoolers
Little Ones to Him Belong 63
are from families of three or more children.188 Imagine the baby is crying,
the phone is ringing, lunch is cooking, and the dog is barking. Is the
mother, who is most often the home schoolteacher, giving her full attention
to the children studying at the kitchen table?
Home-teaching parents are often criticized as also lacking the depth of
knowledge in a variety of areas to continue this practice into the high
school area. This is a problem I am familiar with. For ten years, I taught in
the Los Angeles school’s Individualized Instruction Labs. I was
responsible for as many as forty high school courses in all disciplines.
Students had to complete a list of assignments at eighty percent or more to
receive credit. No one claimed this was an ideal educational arrangement,
but it was a way to meet the needs of some students within the tight budget
of an urban public school district.
For the first several years, I was able to do little more in some subjects
than help the student interpret written information in the books. This is not
teaching! After years of using the resources of a large school district, I
think I did an adequate job of teaching in every field. I consulted with
specialists in the various fields, and gradually accumulated supplementary
materials. Nevertheless, students suffered significantly in the social
sciences and literature (where they did not have the advantage of group
discussion), and in the sciences which are best taught with a fully equipped
laboratory.
Typical fundamentalist home schooling parents have taken their
children out of school as much to protect them from learning which they
consider harmful, as to instill religious values. This greatly decreases what
the parent needs to know. Certainly, in the field of biology, the debate is
well known. Without evolution, any real understanding of DNA is not
important. Teaching it in depth might lead the child to conclude the
evolutionists are right.
The typical public high school literature class includes work
encouraging students to think beyond the cliché, and to question traditional
values. This is not as much to get students to change their values, but so
that they will know why they hold them. To the fundamentalist, all values
are prescribed in the Bible, as explained by some earthly authority.
Questioning them is sacrilege. Neither William Shakespeare nor Toni
Morrison fit in this scheme. Literature can go as far as oversimplified
interpretations of Milton and Blake.189
Ancient history must be shaped to conform to Biblical accounts, and
American history is distorted into an account of a struggle to establish and
maintain a Christian religion. Any serious study of ancient India or of
America’s Founding Fathers calls these standards into question. Indeed,
64 The Fundamentals of Extremism
many fundamentalists claim the Founding Fathers were Christian, in spite
of a clear record that the majority of the most prominent were not.
Other social sciences have to include the concepts homosexuality is a
sin, anti-social behavior is inspired by Satan, and people who have not
heard the word of Jesus are culturally deficient. This, then, excludes much
of the traditional teaching of the courses that might call the entire belief
system into question. Therefore, fundamentalist children are left with very
primitive concepts of biology and physics, with—if the parent can teach
it—some chemistry, though much organic chemistry is suspect.
Mathematics does present a real problem. Though its applications are
often considered sinful, it is not philosophically excluded from the
fundamentalist curriculum. New math, where children are taught to use
critical thinking skills, rather than just the mechanics, is typically avoided.
However, at the higher levels, the math is beyond most parents’ abilities.
Health class, of course, excludes any in-depth study of the human
reproductive system and certainly of birth control. It may also well omit
common psychological issues, such as depression.
Finally, Bible study is important to the fundamentalist curriculum, but
study here may be a misnomer. The fundamentalists’ assertion they take
the Bible literally, without need for interpretation, belies the internal
contradictions within the collection. So, even Bible study, in addition to
lacking any critical analysis, is inadequate in significant detail.
Fundamentalists teach the story of Jesus’ resurrection as history. Yet, they
cannot teach the contradictory events and time lines of the various versions
without adding explanations that defy both logic and Biblical scholarship.
It is no surprise fundamentalists are less likely than the general
population to obtain a college education. Sociologists Alfred Darnell and
Darren Sherkat reveal fundamentalists were found to “have significantly
lower educational attainment in 1973 and 1982” than others. They are also
less likely to take college preparatory classes and have lower educational
aspirations.190
Fundamentalists are also often opposed to colleges, because they see
Christians lose their faith with higher education. By not obtaining a higher
education, fundamentalists never learn to think critically about religion,
politics, and social issues. This leads to mental stagnation in many areas,
and therefore, such problems cannot be resolved.191
After September 11, 2001, Americans were shocked to learn some
Muslim schools in this country were indoctrinating children against the
U.S.A. This came to the fore at a time when private schools were asking
for, and receiving, more public subsidies. Moreover, some politicians,
including President George W. Bush, were asking to further blur the line
Little Ones to Him Belong 65
of separation between government and religion. This suggests Americans
may be ready to discuss some oversight of private schools and home
schooling.
Following the current trend may be disastrous. Arguing against
Muslim secular education specifically, Azam Kamguian notes the
problems parochial education has brought throughout the world:
The dire riots in Oldham and Bradford last summer in England,
and shocking scenes in Ardoyone with Catholic girls spat at by
Protestant parents in the Northern Ireland, and the Islamic
Madrasahs in Pakistan, has shown the ugly faces of religious
schools . . .192
He points out that Islamic schools were very popular in the 1990’s in
Sweden. In these schools, he charges, children were beaten and threatened.
Kamguian accuses such institutions of breeding fanaticism, sexual
apartheid, and hatred.193
As long as there are math tests…
Oh, be careful little hands what you do,
Oh, be careful little hands what you do,
There’s a father up above
And He’s looking down in love
So, be careful little hands what you do.
When I was very young, this was my favorite Sunday school song.
My mother often led the singing, and she indulged my taste by including it
almost every week. I rang out, loud, proud and off-key with each verse,
admonishing myself, “Be careful little feet, where you go,” and even “Be
careful little mouth what you say”; until came the last verse. I wanted to
understand it, to like it, to obey it. But it bothered me to sing it, to
contemplate the idea: “Oh, be careful little mind what you think.”
Evangelist Pat Robertson talks of adding Christianity to the public
schools saying:
[The] public education movement has also been an anti-Christian
movement . . . . We can change education in America if you put
Christian principles in and Christian pedagogy in. In three years,
you would totally revolutionize education in America.194”
66 The Fundamentals of Extremism
The issue is about including the Christian Right’s point of view in the
public educational standard. Yet, anyone who reads the newspaper knows
the movement is as much about excluding ideas and materials, controlling
young minds, and limiting options for all American children. Therefore, it
is not simply the home schooled who are affected. If they succeed, all
children will suffer the narrow education fundamentalist children now
undergo in home schools.
To this end, Robert Simonds, author of How to Elect Christians to
Public Office, (1985), heads the perhaps ironically-titled conservative
group, Citizens for Excellence in Education (CEE). In his book, Simonds
offers a stealth strategy for gaining control of school boards, which has
been highly successful. In 1993, the CEE claimed to have successfully
gained 7,153 school board seats. By 1995, 1,700 committees had been
formed for electing Christian school board members.195 The CEE has
created a list for identifying the secular humanist enemy. Among the more
than 300 words used by humanists are: academic freedom, analysis, career
education, creative writing, human growth, identity, parenting, racism,
worldview, and self-understanding.196
In The Children Trap, Robert Thoburne, an educator at Fairfax
Christian School in Virginia, and a Christian Right advocate, states:
I imagine every Christian would agree that we need to remove
humanism from the public schools. There is only one way to
accomplish this: to abolish the public schools. We need to get the
government out of the education business. According to the Bible,
education is a parental responsibility. It is not the place of the
government to be running a school system.197
Agreeing with Simonds, Thoburne says the way to accomplish this is for
Christian candidates, of the right wing of course, to keep their religious
beliefs and motives hidden.198
On the CEE’s agenda for public school curricula, the law may be
clear, but the mind of the American public is not. Those who would return
our schools to instruments of Protestant indoctrination would seem, at first
blush, to have no chance. Though it may not always be practiced, diversity
is a value most Americans espouse. This is particularly true when it is a
matter of respecting individual rights. And compromise is widely accepted,
even taught in our schools, as the preferable way to settle disputes.
Ironically, fundamentalists, who abhor diversity and who believe real
compromise to be sinful, have perverted these values into weapons for
their own use. The power of the call for “compromise” is evident in the
Little Ones to Him Belong 67
attack on evolution. Many offer, ‘If we teach evolution, why not teach
‘scientific creationism’ along side it, and let the kids judge?” Even as
parents clamor for higher standards, they think this sounds reasonable.
They rarely ask, “why not teach all the mythologies?” or “If we teach
supposition in science class, how will the children understand what science
is?”
In a 1997 Gallup Poll, sixty-eight percent of Americans said they
believe creationism should be taught along with evolution in the public
schools. Shockingly, a large minority of America’s high school biology
teachers—as many as forty-five percent in 1986—agreed. In 1988, a
majority (fifty-three percent) of the nation’s school board members held
that belief.199 Still, the vast majority of Americans, eighty-seven percent in
a 2001 Gallup Poll, favor teaching evolution—though not exclusively.
Where evolution is not taught exclusively, however, it cannot be
taught well, and teaching creationism or “intelligent design” alongside the
science of evolution is the equivalent of teaching in math class that two
plus two make four, except that it may also make three. The student may
eventually figure out what two plus two is, but the system the student
needs to learn is lost in the confusion.
A vital component of any science teaching is vigorous implementation
of the scientific method. Science progresses. Although it is the nature of
science to make all conclusions tentative, specific information that a
student gets in a high school course will likely hold up as true throughout
his lifetime. However, the line of inquiry may be so far extended in a
decade the data learned in high school is irrelevant.
The scientific method is what students must learn, and it will serve
them in adulthood. We live in a rapidly-advancing technological world.
Therefore, the process of drawing conclusions from observation, testing
those conclusions, and abandoning them if they do not work, is important
not just to the scientist but to the layman. It is that, much more than the fact
of evolution, terrifying the fundamentalist. And the concept of “equal
time” for non-science in science class is exactly the formula for ensuring
that only a few of the brightest students are prepared to cope with
tomorrow’s issues.
The unanimity of the scientific community that “creationism” by any
name is not science has stymied the religious right in the courts. Therefore,
fundamentalists have concentrated on influencing state standards, where
they have been quite successful. A recent book, Good Science, Bad
Science by Lawrence S. Lerner, Professor of Science and Science
Education at California State University, Long Beach, was summarized in
68 The Fundamentals of Extremism
the Scientific American. It designated only ten states with very good to
excellent state standards in science.
The twenty-one states, plus the District of Columbia, rated satisfactory
do, indeed, teach evolution. But they include such states as Texas and
Montana, where human evolution is not taught, and Nebraska,
Massachusetts, and New York, where creationist jargon or ideas infuse the
standards. The eighteen states that are rated poor are not necessarily in the
Deep South. In fact, the Carolinas are rated excellent, and Louisiana is
good. Alaska, North Dakota, Wisconsin, Illinois, Ohio, and Maine join the
other southern and border states with unsatisfactory or useless standards.
Iowa is the only state that does not mention evolution at all in its state
standards.200
The other issue of well-known concern to fundamentalists is sex
education. This matter resonates well with the mainstream community.
Both evolution and culture protect the human race from the dangers of
inbreeding by making them loathe looking upon their children as sexual
beings. Unfortunately, this fact of nature and society seem to have made it
difficult for many Americans to face reality.
The study, Teenage Pregnancy in the United States, reveals teen
pregnancy is ranked highest in the United States over six other developed
countries. Yet, the level of sexual experience among teenagers was equal
among the United States and the other six countries. This reveals
American teens are just not using contraceptives regularly.201 In fact, the
Alan Gutmacher Institute compares sexual activity among five developed
western nations, Canada, France, Great Britain, Sweden, and the U.S. It
finds the U.S. has not only the highest birthrate among girls aged fifteen to
nineteen, but also the highest abortion rate in this age group. The birthrate
of fifteen to seventeen-year-olds is higher than two percent in only two of
the forty-six developed countries studied—the United States at 3.4% and
Georgia at 3.5%.
The amount of teen sexual activity is similar in all developed
countries, with the U.S. slightly above average in the activity of teenagers
younger than fifteen, and slightly below average in teenagers older than
eighteen.202 This high rate of teen pregnancy in the United States can be
linked to the lack of adequate sex and birth control education in public
schools. It also stems from the deficiency of contraceptive availability to
teens.
The argument that parents are responsible for sex education finds a lot
of agreement throughout society, even with the best-informed audience. It
reflects a family value almost all Americans hold. The problem with this
attitude is when parents do not meet the obligation or do the job well, it is
Little Ones to Him Belong 69
not only those parents who suffer. In 1989, the public cost of teen
motherhood was in excess of $21 billion, approximately $77 per year for
every person in the country. This figure does not include the indirect costs,
many of which amass years after the child has reached maturity. Women
who become mothers in their teens accrue a lifetime earning half that of
women whose first child comes in their twenties.
Sixty percent of teen mothers who marry before age twenty divorce
within five years, and seventy-five percent of teen mothers drop out of
high school.203 Much of this cost and the heartache creating it are
preventable. This was revealed through a study at the John Hopkins
School of Medicine, which offered free medical and contraceptive services
at a school-based clinic. The results were a thirty percent reduction in teen
pregnancy after only three years.204
In the mind of the fundamentalist, of course, teen pregnancy is not the
problem; teen sex is. Certainly one does not have to hold to any religion to
worry about sexual activity among our children. However, the
fundamentalist assumes, contrary to all research, the sterile environment of
the classroom can either encourage or deter sexual activity. Many espouse
the idea the responsibility of an unwanted child or suffering from a
sexually transmitted disease is a necessary punishment for sexual behavior.
Such people are not moved by repeated data showing no correlation
between information and promiscuity. In fact, those who use birth control
are no more likely to be promiscuous than those who do not. Furthermore,
some data suggest when birth control information is given with advice
about delaying intercourse, it is quite effective in delaying sexual activity.
It also reduces the number of partners an adolescent may have.205 As
Susan Motamed reports in Condom Availability and Responsible Sexuality
Education, providing condoms in schools increases condom use among
students who are already sexually active. But it has no impact on those
who are not, neither in the amount of sexual activity nor in the number of
partners.206
The curriculum of sex education classes is a hot potato to the
politically-minded school boards. In spite of most people’s favoring such
classes, the issue is so emotional the minority who oppose it can strike fear
in the hearts of anyone who aspires to further political office. Consequently
in many districts, our children, whether they are the victims of their own
passions, exploitation in their family, or a stranger’s rape, are often denied
the information or the tools to protect themselves.
Sex education and evolution are only the two best known of the
curricula the fundamentalists wish to change. Their interference into
curricula goes into every classroom and beyond. History is a problem to
70 The Fundamentals of Extremism
most fundamentalists, as it disagrees with their Bible and their prejudices.
A “Bible as history” curriculum produced by the National Council on
Bible Curriculum in the Public Schools illustrates the confused situation in
some of the lower courts. The course, adopted in Lee County, Florida,
taught Biblical events such as the resurrection of Jesus and the parting of
the Red Sea as fact. The court allowed the Old Testament course to stand,
with the parting of the Red Sea and all. But it did not allow the New
Testament course, as the court ruled the Resurrection of Jesus was a
doctrinal claim, not a historical fact.207
Fundamentalists are the largest censors of books not only in America’s
schools, but also in libraries, retail stores, and even youth organizations.
One does not have to look to the Bible belt for an outrageous example.
Most Americans have heard, and have likely shrugged off, the objections
to the popular Harry Potter children’s series as glorifying witchcraft. The
Penryn, Pennsylvania, police department, however, did not take it so
lightly. One of the area’s most popular events is the triathlon, sponsored by
the YMCA, which requires rerouting and directing traffic.208 The eightmember
local police force voted unanimously to boycott the September
2002 event because the YMCA had read Harry Potter stories to children in
its after-school care program.
"I don't feel right taking our children's minds and teaching them
[witchcraft]," Fire-Police Captain Robert Fichthorn told the Associated
Press.209
Similarly Satanic in the eyes of fundamentalists is the reading series
Impressions, an anthology of children’s literature. Donna Harrington-
Lueker, author of “Book Battles” from the American School Board
Journal, reports controversy in many public schools throughout the United
States. By using the threat of opposing upcoming school tax issues unless
schools remove this “occult” literature, fundamentalists have been quite
successful in eliminating it.210
Perhaps no such controversy is as confusing as the Reverend James
Dobson’s objection to the reading series Quest, which was accused of
promoting New Age religion and secular humanism. When Dobson joined
the religious opposition in the early 1990s, there was surprise because he
had contributed to the original series. In response to questions, Dobson
praised the program for consulting Christian psychologists, using Christian
authors, and teaching values “compatible with the Christian perspective.”
Still, he could not endorse the books because they included the works of
some secular humanists. He concluded the series could only be acceptable
if taught by a Christian teacher.211
Little Ones to Him Belong 71
In our society, the appeal to diversity and individual rights is strong.
Fundamentalists ask, “Don’t our children have a right to pray in school?”
They often follow with many anecdotes, mostly false, of teachers
forbidding children to engage in private prayers on school property.
Because most people see religion as a useful moral guide, or at worst, a
benign exercise, these stories, even if only half believed, are powerful
arguments. There is, of course, no judicial proclamation against the
personal exercise of religion on school grounds. But when a student—
often pushed by a parent or minister—tries to commandeer the classroom,
that is a different issue.
The primary case forwarded on behalf of coercive school prayer
certainly appeals to the Eden myth. This is not the one of the Bible, but the
one taught in Sociology 101. It is the commonly held idea that there was a
time when things were much better. Fundamentalists are firmly convinced
the “good old days” ended in 1963 when atheist Madalyn Murray O’Hair
got prayer and God kicked out of the schools. They exploit this idea and
find sympathy in a culture that has always viewed its children with
frightened ambivalence.
Did our society deteriorate after the ruling? In fact, the homicide rate
went down slightly, but steadily in the years following the decision.212
Some would argue the turmoil of the Vietnam protests showed
degeneration; others would credit a new moral awareness of America’s
youth. In either event, these were children educated before the ruling. It
was in the 1950s, not the 1960s, when the term “juvenile delinquency”
was popularized, and fundamentalists were burning records and
condemning Elvis Presley for corrupting America’s youth. It seems
religious conservatives did not recognize the redeeming power of
mandated prayer until they lost it.
What of prayer in schools today? A study commissioned by the
National Catholic Education Association, and partially funded by the
National Institute on Drug Abuse, found illegal behavior is higher among
seniors in Catholic schools, where prayer and religious instruction are daily
occurrences, than in public schools.213 Indeed, the lack of Catholic school
moral superiority is well known to most adolescents. In Los Angeles, the
hills of Los Feliz are home to Immaculate Heart High School, well
respected by the adults of the community for a good academic record. L.A.
teenagers refer to the school as “The Hill on the Pill”214 because of the
school’s high rate of sexual activity.
National tragedies, such as the catastrophe of September 11, 2001,
give proponents of religious indoctrination in the public schools an excuse
to resume their efforts. While this does meet a fundamentalist goal, it does
72 The Fundamentals of Extremism
not necessarily come from the political right. Politician and minister Jesse
Jackson’s liberal politics contrast with his conservative religion. He led the
students at Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology in
Alexandria, Virginia, in what could be mistaken for the prayers at an oldfashioned
revival.215 Time magazine reported:
the gymnasium broke into a rousing call-and-response chant. It
could have been a school pep rally, except that many of the
students and teachers had their heads bowed, and they were
calling out prayers for each other and peace on earth.216
A Hindu student asked, “Can he do that?” Time concluded in the
months following the Trade Center attacks, he could. The magazine
described other incidents of teachers praying with troubled students or
giving religious messages over the public address system, and of a school
auditorium turned into a sanctuary.217
What does American society and government have to say to that
Hindu student? What about to the Christian who takes literally the
admonishment, “When you pray, go into your room and shut the door, and
pray to your Father in secret”?218 How about the nonbeliever who has
been taught to seek rational solutions to problems. Finally, consider the
Muslim adolescent who is trying desperately to fit in. Does America care
about these children?
The Alabama State Senate does not. In February of 2002, it passed a
bill requiring the Ten Commandments to be posted in all schools. Imagine
the abused child having to face everyday, “Honor your father and your
mother, that your days may be long in the land which the Lord your God
gives you.” What about the Catholic, a small minority in most of Alabama,
seeing the law, “You shall not make for yourself a graven image, or any
likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath,
or that is in the water under the earth.” This is what Protestants use to
“prove” Catholics are not Christians.
Then there is the high school senior who is working to save for
college, “Six days you shall labor, and do all your work; but the seventh
day is a Sabbath to the LORD your God; in it you shall not do any work,
you, or your son, or your daughter… .” Finally, what do you say to the
third grader, trying to figure out what it means to “covet your neighbor’s
wife” or his ass.219 Fortunately, this bill died in the House.
Little Ones to Him Belong 73
What’s it all about?
When I was in high school, a classmate’s parents were killed in a car
wreck. The boy and his little sister were badly hurt, but were allowed to
leave the hospital to attend the funeral. It was the Bible belt, and we were
all religious, but the hellfire-and-brimstone fundamentalism of the preacher
was shocking to any sensible person.
My friend’s parents, you see, were going to hell for their evil ways.
What their evil ways were, I never learned, and in such a small town, that
suggests they were not unusually evil. I watched John and Lisa’s faces as
their minister damned the parents they had just lost. This “holy man”
offered no mitigation, no qualification, and only stern warnings if we, the
congregation, did not change our sinful habits, we would follow the
deceased straight to hell. And the children sat stoic, denied the right even to
hear a simple eulogy of the parents they had lost.
I knew about fundamentalists, of course, and thought their methods
crude. But their theology was not very different from my own. It seemed
possible, even likely, that my classmates’ parents were going to hell. But I
could not then, and cannot now understand any earthly or divine
justification for asserting this to the children. I had no words of comfort for
my friends. Like everyone, (except the minister, and a few of his loyal
flock) I was speechless. It was the first time I had seen the callous,
deliberate disregard for the well-being of children that is implicit and
sometimes explicit in fundamentalist thought.
The above sections discuss specific issues of recognized public
concern in the battle for the future of America. Nevertheless, there are
issues that may have no place in public policy, but are of interest to anyone
who cares about children. If Americans can do no more than protest many
of the cruelties and bad judgment that belie the loud protestations of
“family values,” then they must speak out. When ideology rules over
reality, people suffer, and the most vulnerable suffer most.
America is not ready, as a nation, to pass or even consider limits on
family size, but the tendency to large families is perhaps the most
widespread problem of fundamentalism. The National Incidence Study
reports physical and educational neglect is three times more common in
larger families than it is for single children. The report also found,
“professionals in schools play a central and critical role in identifying
children who are abused and neglected.”220
Unfortunately, this resource was not available to the five homeschooled
children of Andrea Yates. The interaction between her religious
74 The Fundamentals of Extremism
beliefs and her mental illness is too complex to attempt to unravel here, but
one fact is extremely relevant. Years before she drowned her children in
the family bathtub, the couple decided not to use birth control and to accept
all the children their God gave them. Neither Rusty Yates, who claims no
mental illness, nor Andrea reconsidered, even though they were warned by
a psychologist what they should have known from experience, that Andrea
was not up to the task.
Sadly, Andrea Yates’ children did not grow to adulthood, but most
fundamentalist children do, and they often find themselves pathetically illprepared.
Children develop decision-making skills by making decisions,
self-esteem by succeeding on their own, and empathy by contact with
people who are quite different from themselves. In Raising Kids Who Can,
therapists Betty Lou Bettner and Amy Lew point out, not only the
individual’s well-being, but also our country’s well-being is at stake.
“Children in a democracy must learn to think for themselves,” the
therapists say, in espousing democratic decision-making in family
meetings.221
The traditional, authoritarian fundamentalist family does not provide
such experiences. These young people enter adulthood as newly-released
slaves, whose only knowledge about dealing with life’s problems are the
methods of slave or of master. The child who is raised to see himself as a
sinner who needs to be controlled may well grow into that image.
Educators H. Stephen Glenn and Jane Nelson cite that the major “obstacle
to developing mature judgment” is having parents who:
lecture, instruct, explain, moralize and ultimately make all
judgments themselves . . . Such parents retard the development of
judgmental maturity and critical thinking, inhibit the acquisition of
wisdom, and replace them with threat and intimidation.222
Those researchers who find positive value in church activity,
nevertheless, find problems with fundamentalism. In 1984, K.M. Brigman
concluded family church participation created more stable, happier
families. However, the "rigid doctrines that promote traditional sex roles or
negative approaches to family planning were thought to be detrimental to
family life."223
Many of this country’s most infamous examples of child abuse appear
to have grown out of such ill-prepared attempts to apply the absolute moral
standard of Christian fundamentalism to a somewhat more complex world.
One example is Mary Kay Latourneau. Hypocrisy is certainly not unique
to fundamentalists, but it is inevitable in a value system framing
Little Ones to Him Belong 75
everything in moral absolutes. It is difficult for a child to learn truly ethical
behavior in such an environment.
John George Schmitz was an early “family values” conservative, a
darling of the group leading the Reagan Revolution, a member of the U.S.
House of Representatives from Orange County, California, and the
patriarch of a fundamentalist Catholic family. His wife, Mary, was a selfproclaimed
antifeminist who was active in the Right to Life League.
Schmitz had a house full of kids who adored him. His favorite, and
perhaps the one most admiring of him, was the one he called “Cake,”
Mary Kay.
Everything came crushing down when Schmitz’s mistress, a former
student of his, was legally charged with abuse of one of her two children
fathered by Schmitz. To his credit, Schmitz acknowledged the relationship
and his paternity. The mistress was found not guilty, but Schmitz’s
political career was over, and the family was devastated. Shortly thereafter,
Mary Kay, barely out of childhood, met Steve Letourneau. When she
became pregnant, they married and moved to Seattle, where they enlarged
their family. Things were apparently normal. That is until Mary Kay, an
elementary school teacher, “fell in love” with, and became pregnant by,
her sixth-grade student.224
Through many talk shows and interviews, she pleaded for people to
understand she meant to hurt no one, that theirs was true love, and she had
to follow her heart. It really is not difficult to understand how she became
confused about right and wrong in matters of the heart. She grew up in a
world of simple “good” vs. “evil,” only to learn that, by those definitions
her mentor and hero was “evil.” Certainly, sensible people are aghast the
confusion could be this dreadful.
It would be ludicrous, of course, to suggest infamous adults who came
from fundamentalist families commit their harmful acts solely because of
their parents’ religion. However, it would be a serious denial of reality to
suggest the unrelenting, absolutist God of their fathers had nothing to do
with their perverse behavior. The question, of course, is how many
children are being raised today to disrespect human standards of decency
in favor of some “higher law” that is as inflexible as it is unattainable.
If fundamentalists can call for compromise in things as basic as the
definition of science, is it not appropriate to demand some compromise,
some standards met in the education of their children? And what about
some oversight in the physical discipline of defenseless babies?
America indulges fundamentalists’ concepts of discipline and
education, their absolute right to inflict violence, to insulate their children
from the marketplace of ideas, and to protect them from a well-rounded
76 The Fundamentals of Extremism
education. Is this not abetting crimes against today’s children, as well as
the crimes their children may commit in the future? Certainly, freedom of
religion is an American value that must be preserved, but it need not mean
religion is an easy and acceptable disguise for physical, sexual, and
intellectual abuse or neglect of children.
77
Chapter 4
ETERNAL SUBSERVIENCE
CREATED FROM MAN FOR MAN
by Kimberly Blaker
A wife is to submit graciously to the servant leadership of her husband,
even as the Church willingly submits to the headship of Christ. She . . . has
the God-given responsibility to respect her husband and to serve as his
helper in managing the household and nurturing the next generation.225
The Baptist Faith and Message,
Article 18, of the Southern Baptist Convention
To many Americans today, this portrayal of woman’s role reads like a
line from a history textbook describing the station of women from decades,
if not a century or two, past. Those of us in mainstream homes have been
shielded from the reality of modern-day male domination. In the eyes of
many, the only shred of first-hand evidence such roles once existed is seen
in some of our grandparents and great-grandparents, generations that will
soon pass. But, this command for a woman’s submission to her husband is
not centuries or even decades old. Neither is it part of a long-time
document simply never erased. Eight thousand three hundred delegates of
the Southern Baptist Convention (SBC), the largest Protestant
denomination in the world, met in Salt Lake City for its annual convention
on June 9, 1998. To the dismay of many moderate Baptists, Article 18 of
the SBC’s Baptist Faith and Message was approved.
The Baptist Faith and Message had gone unchanged for thirty-five
years. The SBC, although conservative in its beliefs, had not previously so
defined the role for women. The new Article 18 requires millions of
Baptist women desiring to enter the workforce, or other equally pedestrian
matters, at least in homes adhering to the Baptist Faith, to get permission
from their husbands. This is something the Article’s drafters have
acknowledged.226
78 The Fundamentals of Extremism
The implications of such growth in conservative Christian views and
on woman’s role are many, whether by fundamentalists or those just
bordering such views. Christian fundamentalism not only affects women
in fundamentalist homes but women throughout society. In fact,
fundamentalist beliefs impact women more severely than any other group.
First, women in fundamentalist homes may have little or no control over
their own reproduction and are often unfamiliar with effective forms of
birth control, should they opt for such a health convenience. Other women
are affected by a government that fails to ensure teenagers are adequately
educated on reproduction and contraception. Poor women, especially, are
at risk. This is because contraceptives are expensive and the Christian
Right has worked to prevent insurance policies from covering birth control
and the social programs offering them.
Women are also affected in the way they are treated by their fathers
and husbands. Many women in fundamentalist homes accept their position
of servitude and obedience as the proper role for women. Whether they
recognize and admit to it or not, they are treated as second-class citizens.
The husband may control his wife’s decision to work, to further her
education, even to socialize. Such control often leads to spousal abuse,
which, as will be seen, is not uncommon in Christian fundamentalist
homes. Spousal abuse affects mainstream women as well if they marry
men who learned this pattern of behavior from a fundamentalist or
religiously conservative upbringing. Even when the man does not hold
tightly to the religious views with which he was raised, such patterns have
been instilled. These men often learn only one way to resolve marital
conflict and discord—by physically enforcing their wives’ obedience.
This treatment of women leads to serious implications for their
physical, mental, and sexual health. Fundamentalist women often suffer
from beliefs preventing them from obtaining appropriate medical
treatment. Similarly, the health of mainstream women is affected by
conservative religious views influencing the care they receive in Catholiccontrolled
hospitals. They are also affected by laws and the absence of
laws, pertaining to women’s reproductive health and choice.
Further, the mental health of fundamentalist women is compromised
as they see themselves as loyal servants to their spouse, family, and church.
They eventually accept that, as women, they are unworthy of a more
satisfying life. Fundamentalist women may view pleasurable sex as evil.
This ultimately leads to the development of any number of sexual
dysfunctions and disorders. These stultifying views may affect the larger
population of non-fundamentalist women. State laws have been proposed,
Eternal Subservience 79
and in one case enacted, prohibiting the sale of vibrators and other sexual
devices vital in treating sexual dysfunction, among other privacy issues.
Patriarchal Beginnings
The origins of patriarchy are unclear. Some scholars believe it began
to develop during the Paleolithic Age, when women were stolen from
other bands. Others believe Indo-Europeans transformed what was once a
matrifocal society into a patriarchal one.227 Biologist Richard Dawkins
points out that it likely dates back long before the Indo-Europeans and that
“a case can be made that it goes way back in evolution.”228
Regardless of when it first came to be practiced, it has been prevalent
in different societies throughout history. In America, women were
historically “ruled” by their fathers and husbands and often married into a
life of servitude. This revolved solely around caring for and educating their
children, keeping the home, working in the fields,229 and catering to their
husband’s every need.
Coverture, a concept based on Anglo-American common law, which
was gradually abandoned by the various states throughout the nineteenth
century, defined the status of married women.230 “Under the common law
doctrine of coverture, a wife, like a slave, was civilly dead. A slave had no
independent legal existence apart from his master, and husband and wife
became ‘one person,’ the person of the husband,” explains Carole
Pateman,231 a leading political theorist.
Only men were able to request divorces. Women could not write wills,
sign contracts, or obtain loans. They had very limited property rights. Male
authority was well established both within the home and in public. In most
parts of the country, women could be raped or beaten by their husbands
with no laws to protect them. Women also had little access to education,
and although they did often help produce income for the family, they were
limited to only certain types of work.232
By the nineteenth century, some women began to demand equality in
the home. But contrary to what would be expected, industrialization in the
mid part of the century brought more rather than fewer restrictions on
women. They came to be seen as guardians of “domestic virtues.” Men
became the sole income producers, and the strictures on women’s
traditional roles became tighter.233 Yet, at the same time, a distinctive
female culture began to arise, and female relationships began to intensify.
These social networks would ultimately lead to woman’s reform.234
In 1848, the woman’s movement was launched when Lucretia Mott
and Elizabeth Cady Stanton called a women’s rights convention, held in
80 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Seneca Falls, New York. Its purpose was “to discuss the social, civil, and
religious rights of women.” Out of the convention came a “Declaration of
Sentiments and Resolutions,” stating “all men and women are created
equal.” The goals of the women’s movement were defined.
In 1859, reliable condoms became available, and women gained the
ability to limit their family size. This played a crucial role in gaining
equality, as women were no longer forced into roles of lifelong
childrearing. A Women’s Suffrage Amendment was then introduced to the
United States Congress in 1878. Still, women’s rights progressed slowly
and were fought tooth and nail, not only by men, but also by women.
In 1897, Susan B. Anthony predicted, “there never will be complete
equality until women themselves help to make laws and elect lawmakers.”
She was right. Forty-two years after its introduction, the Nineteenth
Amendment, which gave women the right to vote, was ratified in 1920.
After that milestone, the pace toward women’s equality gained
momentum.235
Another major stepping stone toward women’s equality was the wider
availability of birth control and a greater variety of contraceptive options.
In 1916, Margaret Sanger braved imprisonment to open the United States’
first birth-control clinic in Brooklyn. In 1917, she founded the National
Birth Control League that later became Planned Parenthood Federation of
America. Her commitment to birth control and reproductive freedom for
all came from her experiences as a nurse. She had seen the horrifying
images of death and deformity caused by self-induced abortions.236
Finally, in 1936, birth control devices such as condoms and diaphragms
were ruled legal for preventing pregnancy. In 1960, the FDA approved
oral contraceptives. Women finally gained complete control over their
reproduction when in 1972, the landmark Roe v. Wade case established a
woman’s right to abortion.
The Equal Rights Amendment that had been proposed in 1923 to
eliminate gender discrimination passed Congress that same year. The
simple, straightforward amendment stated, “Equality of rights under the
law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on
account of sex.” Susan Faludi, author of the national bestseller Backlash:
The Undeclared War Against Women, points out that within two years of
these major accomplishments for women, all the New Right groups arose.
They began a concerted effort to crush the ERA. The Conservative Caucus
called it one of “the most destructive pieces of legislation to ever pass
Congress.” Feminists were demonized and held responsible for every
societal and family ill.237
Eternal Subservience 81
Again, as before, misogynists were not the only ones standing in the
way of the ERA. Women of the religious right obstructed ERA ratification
as much as the men.238 Women had some legitimate concerns with ERA,
such as whether it would lead to the removal of protections like alimony
for women and the possible emergence of unisex restrooms. Yet, it also
revealed the severity of mind control many women had been subject to in
conservative Christian homes and churches.
The effectiveness of Phyllis Schlafly’s Eagle Forum, established
primarily to fight ratification of the ERA, was especially disheartening, as
it proved just how effective the New Right would be. Polls revealed twothirds
of Americans favored the ERA, and it had been ratified by twentytwo
states within its first year following Congressional approval.
Nonetheless, ratification came to a screeching halt between 1975 and
1977, then began to reverse as “five states rescinded their previous
approval.”239
Still, the Christian Right’s fight to block the ERA from ratification did
not abate. In 1980, Reverend Jerry Falwell argued in Listen, America!
“The Equal Rights Amendment strikes at the foundation of our entire
social structure.” According to Faludi, Falwell railed at the women’s
movement, which, he concluded, had wreaked havoc on America and the
family. Typical of his irrational bombast, he went so far as to accuse
feminists of launching a “satanic attack on the home.” Then he promised to
destroy the ERA, burying it “once and for all in a deep, dark grave.”240
The following year, 1981, the New Right introduced the Family
Protection Act drafted by Paul Weyrich, “Father of the New Right,” and
his advisers at the Heritage Foundation. The Act was “a blueprint for the
New Right program”241 and, as such, was far from what its title implied.
The act was nothing more than a device to destroy women’s rights.242 As
Faludi explained, among other things, “The act’s proposals [would]:
eliminate federal laws supporting equal education” and would “require
marriage and motherhood to be taught as the proper career for girls.”243
The act also offered “tax incentives to induce married women to have
babies and stay at home.”244
Although the oppressive Act didn’t pass, in 1982 the New Right won
one if its greatest battles. The deadline for ratification of the ERA expired,
and it was defeated falling three states short of ratification. Still, putting a
halt to the ERA was not enough. The New Right wanted nothing short of a
complete return to the patriarchal society. Over the next few years, it
continued to make many legislative proposals under the guise of “family.”
These included a bill for censoring all birth control information from not
82 The Fundamentals of Extremism
only teens but adults as well, until marriage. Equally disturbing, a
“chastity” bill was proposed.245
Regardless of the patriarchal push and the growth of Christian
conservatism, by 1989 a survey of Christian women found only three
percent went to their ministers for “moral guidance.” Evangelical
preachers felt threatened and began their battle cry from the pulpit by
reciting, “The husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is head of the
church,” (Ephesians 5:22-24) on a regular basis.246
Then in 1992, Pat Robertson wrote in a fundraising letter:
The feminist agenda is not about equal rights for women. It is
about a socialist, anti-family political movement that
encourages women to leave their husbands, kill their children,
practice witchcraft, destroy capitalism and become
lesbians.247
Less than a decade later, the continued growth of the conservative
movement was enough to lead the 15-million member Southern Baptist
Convention to add Article 18 to its Baptist Faith and Message. This
widespread growth of patriarchal views among Southern Baptists
ultimately led to a division in the SBC in 2000. The moderate minority of
the SBC had been adamantly opposed to the growing conservatism of the
Church leadership, which insisted on Biblical literalism, wives’ submission
to their husbands, and the barring of women from the ministry.248
Lessons in sexism
The role of women in Christian fundamentalist homes is well defined
and generally accepted without question. There is little doubt who will
prepare dinner, wash the dishes, clean the house, and rear the children.
These traditional tasks are viewed as woman’s work and are assigned, if
not by man, then by the church. Women are expected to serve their
spouses dutifully and not question the authority of their husbands. They
must seek permission for any activities outside the realm of what has
traditionally been considered feminine, from taking a job to involvement in
social activities. This is especially so where mainstream socializing might
take place. In these patriarchal homes, when important decisions need to
be made, women may be offered the opportunity to give their input, but
ultimately decisions rest with men.
As David M. Scholer, Professor of New Testament at Fuller
Theological Seminary points out, today’s major proponents of male
Eternal Subservience 83
headship and female submission express their views quite clearly. Robert
D. Culver, in his essay “A Traditional View: Let Your Women Keep
Silence,” relates the following after quoting Genesis 3:16 “he shall rule
over thee.” According to Culver:
with occasional exceptions, this is the way it has always been and
likely always will be . . . it is a statement of fact, which neither the
Industrial Revolution nor the feminist movement is likely to
overturn. . . . The radical feminists should give up and quit.
Normal, universal female human nature is against them. Most
women prefer things the way they are, at least wherever biblical
norms have prevailed. . . . Male ascendancy in most affairs is not a
legal ordinance to be obeyed; it is a fact to acknowledge. . . .
Ordinarily the authority of adults over other adults ought to be by
men and almost certainly will be. The scriptural standard for male
leadership of churches is even stronger.249
The question many of us ponder is why so many women would
accept this way of life. The answer is complex, but stems in part from
childhood indoctrination, social isolation through home schooling, instilled
guilt, and promises of gratification. The guilt that is thrust upon
conservative Christian women is revealed in a tract written by the Church
of God in Christ that prescribes:
Woman’s first duty is the making and keeping of her home. Many
a modern woman chooses a career, hires a baby-sitter, and rushes
her children through childhood so that she can be free to pursue
her selfish interests. The Bible teaches that women are to be
‘keepers at home’ (Titus 2:5). This means a women [sic] is to be
there, loving her husband, teaching and enjoying children, and
applying the homemaking arts with joy in her heart.250
Inducing guilt in women for having needs and desires of their own by
referring to these as “selfish” is one way in which Biblical literalists
achieve control. At the same time and in contrast, the responsibilities
charged to the woman are riddled with positive emotional language that
impresses on women the feelings they should hold. These descriptive
terms: “loving,” “enjoying,” “with joy in her heart,” are used not only to
induce these positive feelings about her roles, but to arouse a sense of guilt
when negative feelings surface regarding her assigned station in life.
84 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Instilling guilt in women is one of the best ways Christian sects gain
women’s full cooperation and support for the hierarchical marriage.
Should a woman still question how this role is to her benefit or why
she should submit, she is likely to be informed, “A woman’s submission to
her husband liberates her from a multitude of frustrating problems, and her
submission to God’s order frees her from guilt. Submission is a blessing,
not a curse!”251 Here, the author even admits guilt, the crucial element to
mind control, is a feeling these women likely hold. Then, after the woman
has been pounded with guilt-inducing messages, the patriarch becomes the
saint. He offers a way to relieve her shame, which he originally created.
The woman’s guilt is erased, then, by serving her husband, and thus she
confuses his control for an act of love.
It is necessary to understanding the wide acceptance of these gender
roles, to see how sexist attitudes develop and are maintained. A study
conducted by sociologists Charles W. Peek, George D. Lowe, and L.
Susan Williams (1991) found the level of sexism held by men and women
in conservative Christian homes is about the same. Yet, the cause of these
stereotypes varies by gender, especially for fundamentalists.252 For males,
affiliation with fundamentalist groups is what lends to greater sexism. But,
for women it is not the groups to which they belong but instead, their belief
in Biblical literalism that lends to their sexist attitudes. Thus, as these
sociologists point out, “Women who take the word of God with a grain of
salt are less sexist.”253
This would explain the significance of groups such as the Promise
Keepers (PK), which was founded in 1990 by Bill McCartney, a former
University of Colorado football coach, in shaping sexist views. Men are
inclined to form their opinions based on group beliefs. Those who
participate, even if truly with the intent of becoming a better husband and
father, are more likely to come out more patriarchal instead. This is
because the PK leadership promotes male headship. While many
bystanders have failed to see this connection, and the PK has insisted its
purpose is for the betterment of marriages, nothing could be further from
reality. Those who become involved in the PK receive a strong message
not conducive to marital harmony. As Tracey Ann Martin, former
newsletter editor for the Western Wayne County, Michigan Chapter NOW
points out:
True: there are those Seven Promises of Promise Keepers. And,
for the most part, they are high-minded enough. Integrity, Honesty
. . . but they sum up to a promise to control you. And Promise
Keepers does promise what they preach. A family unit in which
Eternal Subservience 85
the husband serves as domestic shepherd and women and children
. . . are completely subordinated to his blessed, God-ordained
shepherding. Men who infuse themselves into the all-male
Promise Keepers paradise must be willing to accept this verity
wholly and agree, within their cell groups each headed by a leader
man, to a mutual accountability for its implementation. Then they
are expected to subsume themselves as well into a male chain of
command leading from all directions back to Boulder,
Colorado.254
Tony Evans, among other PK leaders, has made this loud and clear by
exhorting, “I am not suggesting that you ask for your role back [in the
marriage], I am urging you to take it back. There can be no compromise
here.”255 What messages are these men receiving whose sexism stems
mainly from male relationships? They are urged to “take” rather than to
“ask,” which implies force. As most of us well know, a good marriage is
built on compromise, yet Evans throws compromise out the door. How
forceful will many of these men become to uphold their promise to the
PK? There is no question many men enter solely for the betterment of their
marriage and are not of this narrow mindset—at least not going in. What is
troubling is how many will walk out accepting the PK’s myopic vision.
Many of the men who innocently become involved in the PK are married
to women who were not raised in such oppressive homes, and they are
therefore unlikely to accept their partner’s domination. They will likely
resist such attempts at control. Here is where the danger lies. These men
may be more inclined to relate to their families in a dictatorial fashion. In
the worst circumstances, this could lead to spousal abuse.
At the same time these men are learning sexist attitudes from their
affiliations, women are indoctrinated by religious leaders and
fundamentalist literature in which the Bible and her religious convictions
are repeatedly used against her. Many Biblical passages from the New and
Old Testaments are used to support this patriarchal view:
To avoid confusion and establish order, someone needs to be the
head and God has ordained that this should be the man (I
Corinthians 11:3). . . . Christ is subject to God, man is subject to
Christ, and woman is subject to man. . . .
As the church is subject to Christ, so let wives also be subject in
everything to their husbands. (Ephesians 5:24)
86 The Fundamentals of Extremism
As in all the churches of the saints, the women should keep
silence in the churches. For they are not permitted to speak, but
should subordinate, as even the law says. If there is anything they
desire to know, let them ask their husbands at home. For it is
shameful for a woman to speak in church. (I Corinthians 14:33-
35)
Let a woman learn in silence, with all submissiveness. I permit no
woman to teach or to have authority over men: she is to keep
silent. . . . [w]oman will be saved through bearing children, if she
continues in faith and love and holiness, with modesty. (I Timothy
2:11-12, 2:15)256
Conservative males also manipulate women into buying their
patriarchal worldview by glorifying submissiveness. Woman’s role is
referred to as “one of the greatest privileges in the world . . .” softening the
blow by creating an illusion of specialness:
with Christ she will be able to live a self-denied life. . . . He will
grace her life with humility, modesty, and with that inner
‘ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God
of great price’ (I Peter 3:3,4).
She [woman] was a direct gift from the hand of God, made from
man and for man. (I Corinthians 11:9).
Although the woman is considered the ‘weaker vessel’ (I Peter
3:7), this does not make her inferior.
In the Garden of Eden, God said, ‘It is not good that the man
should be alone,’ and He made a help mate for him—a
companion, someone to satisfy needs (Genesis 2:18).257
Again, her religious convictions are taken advantage of, and the Bible
is used against her to cement these views. Of course, “someone to satisfy
needs” (as quoted above) is primarily what patriarchy is about. Patriarchal
men are in search of the woman who can offer companionship and
unquestioning obedience. They want a woman to serve as nanny,
housekeeper, and cook. All the while, these men are building their own
potential in the workforce or business world. What will be a wife’s
compensation? Food, clothing, and a roof over her head—so long as she
Eternal Subservience 87
never leaves this confined life. As these men well know, once she accepts
this lifestyle, she becomes trapped as she is prevented from doing anything
that could eventually lead to independence.
Another reason women are seduced into female submission,
according to Alice P. Mathews, of the Conservative Baptist Seminary of
the East, is that many Christian women hear promises of gratification.258
Mathews’s point is illustrated by conservative author, J.M. Miles of The
Femine Principal: A Woman’s Discovery of the Key to Total Fulfillment.
He claims:
What does the woman gain by submission to her own husband?
Only the infinite security of yielding to the duly constituted chain
of authority in the universe; only the deep joy of living with a real
man who grows stronger everyday; only the fulfillment of fully
participating in a genuine love relationship; only the completing of
what is partial in her human nature; only the opening of her
yielded being to the influence of God’s Spirit, who comes where
humble and yielded spirits are seeking Him.259
Conservative church leaders and patriarchs are well versed in the
female psyche. Portraying the oppressive role fundamentalist women are
subjected to as a high and noble cause is commonplace. L. Christenson,
author of The Christian Family, similarly claims:
To be submissive means to yield humble and intelligent
obedience to an ordained power or authority [the husband]. . . .
God did not give this law of wives being submissive to their
husbands because he had a grudge against women; on the
contrary, he established this order for the protection of women and
the harmony of the home. He means for a woman to be sheltered
from many of the rough encounters of life. Scripture knows
nothing of a 50-50 ‘democratic marriage.’ The wife is 100% a
wife, the husband is 100% a husband. . . . A wife’s primary
responsibility is to give of herself, her time, and her energy to her
husband, children, and home.” (Christenson, 1970, pp. 32-33,
40).260
Clearly, conservative Christian leaders know the emotional triggers to
appeal to women. To many, it is inconceivable any woman would be
unable to see through these sugarcoated messages, especially when they
are sprinkled throughout calling for her to give, give, give. But, many
88 The Fundamentals of Extremism
women who fall into this trap have been raised in homes and churches
indoctrinating these beliefs from the time they were young. Raised in
authoritarian homes, these women have mistakenly come to perceive such
control as love. Moreover, women raised in such controlling and often
abusive environments grow up with a potent need for male love and
approval, and they unknowingly seek to fulfill it through their spouse. He
becomes the “loving” father they never had, despite the fact they have
chosen partners as controlling as their fathers.
Marital harmony and hierarchy
A common argument for patriarchy by conservative Christians is that
a woman’s submission acts as a protective shield against marital
dissatisfaction and divorce, in comparison to non-hierarchical marriages.
Convincing women their submissiveness is the road to everlasting
happiness is one of the ways women come to accept male headship. In
reality, though, the only dissatisfaction this shields against is a man's.
Obviously, a man who has someone at his every beck and call, will likely
never be discontent, or so it would seem. Yet, once such a relationship has
been established, the woman’s dissatisfaction is likely to cause major
unhappiness, as she feels bound to a life she cannot escape. Women in
patriarchal homes generally do not work outside the home. Even when
they do, they are often without the financial means to leave because their
partners control the type of employment and hours they can work. These
women are not afforded opportunities to further their education and attain
job skills, mainly because it could eventually lead to financial
independence.
Regardless, the argument that patriarchal families are less likely to
destruct is without support. According to an undocumented report
discovered by Mathews of the Conservative Baptist Seminary, “a small
but well-known evangelical denomination recently announced that in the
course of a year, it lost one clergy couple per week to divorce.”261
Mathews explains what happens, more often than not, is a wife’s selfsurrender
leads to alienation rather than fulfillment. The traditional
hierarchical marriage leads to marital pressure, dissatisfaction, and even
divorce.262 It is not difficult to imagine how many other reports and studies
with similar findings have been quietly filed away.
A recent study by Mathews revealed the true level of unhappiness and
dissatisfaction evangelical women feel. The study interviewed all married
and previously-married women who staffed an evangelical Christian
organization. The study asked women, among other things, to list the five
Eternal Subservience 89
most advantageous reasons to marry. Companionship was listed by
seventy-five percent of the women.263 Yet, when these same women were
asked their personal experiences, companionship was often lacking. Less
than twenty percent found their need for companionship to be met.264 One
woman revealed:
Companionship—this has been possibly the biggest
disappointment for me personally as I chose to marry someone
with very different interests than mine. . . . Hence the
companionship relationship in my marriage has been
disappointing, frustrating, hurtful, at times abusive—emotionally,
mentally, not physically.265
As would be expected, the disadvantages of male headship women
mentioned were:
Loss of potential for growth, and development of talents.
All-consuming responsibility for others (spouse and children).
Loss of one’s own vision for ministry.
Loss of independence, freedom to ‘do my own thing.’
Time is no longer my own.
Loss of freedom to make my own decisions.266
Another question asked the women to rate their own marital
experience, in which they indicated:
All I do is work and do childcare. Have to fight depression, fight
to be innovative and pursue anything creative.
I struggle to find time to do what I want to do, and I feel guilty and
selfish for wanting time to myself.
Sometimes I feel ‘controlled’ or restricted in independence and
freedom, which sometimes makes me depressed. . . . My identity
is rather confused—as a single I felt whole, but as a married I feel
like half a person, and it’s hard to know my identity.267
90 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Furthermore, according to more than half of the women surveyed, those
with strong commitments to their church and religious convictions felt,
rather than helping their adjustment, the church had actually hindered
them.268
More telling of the reality of dissatisfaction, was a study published by
Barna Research Group, Ltd., a California, Christian-based marketing
research company. A Barna article titled “Christians Are More Likely to
Experience Divorce Than Are Non-Christians,” reported that Baptists,
born-again Christians, and nondenominational Christians are more likely
to divorce than non-born-agains, mainline Protestants, atheists, agnostics,
and several other religious groups. The study, below, which was published
in December 1999, involved interviews with 3,854 adults in forty-eight
states, asking whether they were currently or had previously been
divorced. According to the research group, the large sample size indicates
a high level of accuracy and makes the difference in divorce rates
“statistically significant.” 269
Divorce Rates for Persons Who are Currently or have Previously
been Divorced, by Religious Belief or Affiliation
Nondenominational Protestants 34%
Jews 30%
Baptists 29%
Born-again Christians 27%
Mainline Protestants 25%
Mormons 25%
Non-born-again Christians 24%
Catholics 21%
Lutherans 21%
Atheists/Agnostics 21%270
Marital dissatisfaction and divorce is only one problem related to the
hierarchical marriage. A study was completed in 1989 by Carolyn
Holderread Heggen, one of the coauthors of Women, Abuse, and the Bible:
How Scripture Can Be Used to Heal or Hurt. She found women who
believed in subordination to men scored lower on self-esteem measures
than women who believed in gender equality.271 The negative effects of
male domination on women’s emotional health, revealed through the
evangelical women’s responses, is undeniable and disheartening.
Eternal Subservience 91
John Swomley, Professor emeritus of Social Ethics at St. Paul School
of Theology, has written extensively on women’s issues, the Christian
Right, and Catholicism. He points out that defining and institutionalizing
women’s role as mother and caregiver, through “religious, economic, and
political systems and enforced by legislation and custom,” is merely a
covert form of violence against women.272 The effects of emotional abuse
related to the hierarchical marriage, while invisible to the naked eye, leads
women into depression, at best, to trauma, suicide, and worse. This was
evidenced when Andrea Yates drowned her five children.
Battered into submission
Every fifteen seconds a woman is beaten in the United States—and
one-third of all women murdered in the nation are victims of boyfriends,
husbands, and former partners. More alarming, domestic violence is the
leading cause of death for women around the world between the ages of
fourteen and forty-four.273 Violence against women, however, is not a new
phenomenon. The battery of women very likely goes back as far in history
as patriarchy.
To be certain, a historical review of domestic violence was made in
1979, by sociologists R. Emerson Dobash and Russell Dobash. They
concluded, according to sociologists Richard J. Gelles and Ann Levine,
“that violence against wives is an extension of patriarchy; ancient customs
and laws designed to give men domination and control over women.”274
Patriarchy is the common family structure among fundamentalists today,
and universal male domination is one of the key goals of the religious
right. Historical examples of the relationship between patriarchy and
domestic violence can be seen by glimpsing into early Roman society.
There, a wife was considered her husband’s property having “no more
rights than a child or slave.” A wife merely suspected of adultery could be
punished by death.275
In early Christian society, women did not fair much better. Gelles and
Levine explain:
The Bible was interpreted as teaching that woman was created
from Adam’s rib, as an afterthought, to serve man’s [sic] needs;
that she was weak by nature and easily lured into temptation; and
that as punishment for Eve’s transgression, she must live a life of
subjugation.276
92 The Fundamentals of Extremism
A husband, in those days, had the authority to enforce his wife’s servitude
through beating. Even the United States, the birthplace of democracy in
modern times, did not pass laws until the late 1800s to protect married
women from “excessive” physical force.277 Statistics reveal today, the
problem of spousal abuse continues. An alarming number of men still
believe violence is an acceptable means to gaining a woman’s
compliance.278
One of the characteristics common to batterers is “the traditional belief
in male superiority and the stereotyped masculine gender role within the
family.”279 But, where do these beliefs come from? According to James
and Phyllis Alsdurf in Battered into Submission: The Tragedy of Wife
Abuse in the Christian Home, “the probability of wife abuse increases with
the rigidity of a church’s teachings, especially teachings pertaining to
gender roles and hierarchy.”280
As Heggen, an elder of the Albuquerque Mennonite Church found,
certain types of religious beliefs relate to spousal abuse. Among Christians,
four of those beliefs are that: 1) women should be subordinate to men, 2)
women are inferior to men, 3) it is a Christian virtue for women to suffer,
and 4) as Christians, women must forgive their abuser.281
Worse, fundamentalist pastors often condone domestic violence, or at
the very least, are unsupportive of battered women and unhelpful in
protecting them from further abuse. This is evidenced by one battered
woman who was told by her pastor:
No matter what he is doing to you, he is still your spiritual head.
Respect those behaviors that you can respect and pray for those
that you can’t respect. But remember, no matter what, you owe it
to him and to God to live in submission to your husband. You’ll
never be happy until you submit to him.282
Battered women have several common characteristics. These include:
strong support for family unity, traditional values pertaining to the home,
and acceptance of the female gender-role stereotypes assigned by the
church.283 Unfortunately, religious beliefs and values are one of the main
reasons women remain in abusive relationships.284 Those with strong
religious backgrounds who accept male headship are often “the least likely
to believe that violence against them is wrong,”285 as was found in a study
by Leonore Walker in 1979.
Wives and girlfriends are not the only victims of battery resulting from
beliefs in male domination. For highly religious women, whether the
assault is by a male partner or just an acquaintance, the result is often the
Eternal Subservience 93
same. Shirley Gillett, founder of Women Won’t Forget, had been sexually
assaulted by another member of her church. Following the attack, she felt
worthless, because she had not upheld her duty to control the offender’s
sexual urges. She had learned in Sunday school, it was the woman’s
responsibility to control. The assault was then compounded by feelings of
helplessness because Gillett knew “women’s words were worth nothing.”
So, she did not report it. As a result, Gillett grew severely depressed and
eventually stopped attending church.286
Gillett’s fears regarding the reaction she would have received may not
have been far off base. One woman who had been physically and sexually
abused by her father was told by her pastor, “Only a bitter, self-pitying
woman would even remember these things after all those [twenty]
years.”287 Similarly, as Christine E. Gudorf wrote in the Christian Century,
“Victims of domestic battery are especially likely to hear [from Christians]
that this cross of theirs should not be shirked, that their duty is to remain
with the abusive spouse.”288 Therefore, helping battered fundamentalist
women is difficult. According to a 1987 report by Vicky Whipple in the
Journal of Marital and Family Therapy, they are encouraged to seek help
from the church, often rely on faith, are encouraged to forgive, are male
dominated, and oppose divorce.289 Thus, they are unlikely to see how
wrong the abuse really is.
As Heggen points out, the only way to prevent domestic violence is to
eliminate the belief God’s plan is for a patriarchal society.290 This may be
easier said than done. In spite of all the evidence, many religious leaders
fail to see or at least acknowledge the connection between patriarchy and
domestic violence. Many continue to push for the further subjugation of
women. Instead of recognizing the role male headship plays, an
evangelical minister once insisted to a sociologist, “Wife beating is on the
rise because men are no longer leaders in their homes. I tell the women
they must go back home and be more submissive.”291
No way out—the woman trap
Unbeknownst to many are two ways in which the Christian Right
pursues the reinstitution and maintenance of the patriarchal family. This is
through local, state, and federal proposals to either eliminate or reform
welfare and other government assistance programs and through proposals
to make divorce more difficult, if not impossible, to obtain. To onlookers,
these proposals are often seen as ways to put a stop to abuse of the welfare
system and to make married couples work harder to resolve conflict—just
as the Christian Right intends. However, for many women in abusive
94 The Fundamentals of Extremism
relationships their only hope for getting out of a potentially lethal situation
is with the help of welfare.
Many battered women come from fundamentalist homes where
they’ve not been allowed to work, or at least not earn enough to financially
support themselves, so few would ever be able to leave without assistance.
Keeping battered women tied to their abusers through difficult to obtain
divorces and lengthy waiting periods is unacceptable. It increases the odds
they will remain with or return to an abusive partner. In most cases, such
proposals would allow for divorce under certain circumstances, such as
physical abuse or alcoholism. Still, it is often difficult and sometimes
impossible to prove battery because battered women frequently hide the
abuse from family and friends and do not report it. Therefore, no records or
witnesses may exist to support a woman’s claim. It then becomes his word
against hers in a court of law, leaving it to a judge to determine a battered
woman’s fate.
Yet, how much political support do these divorce and welfare reform
packages really have, and who is proposing and supporting them? A
September 1996 article appearing in Policy Review, a publication of the
Heritage Foundation, sheds light on this question. The foundation, founded
by Paul Weyrich, of the New Right, and Joseph Coors ,“is best known for
its production of tomes that compile recommendations for reducing or
abolishing government policies, regulations, and agencies,”292 says
Political Research Associates. These are sent out to “7,000 congressional
and administrative officials, staff journalists, and major donors.”293 Policy
Review asked several right-wing and Christian Right “family experts” how
the government can “make sure that the overwhelming majority of
American children grow up with a mother and father.”
Attorney General John Ashcroft, who was a senator at the time,
offered the following doublespeak: “Government must encourage families
to come together and stay together through cultural, not governmental,
pressures.” Government encouragement, concealed as “cultural” pressure,
is nonetheless “governmental pressure.” Ashcroft further insists, “The
most important role for government is to remove the perverse incentives of
the welfare state.”294
Another expert was James Dobson who believes, “The primary
responsibility for the provision of authority in the home has been assigned
to men.”295 His Focus on the Family has exhibited strong political interest
in restructuring welfare. Dobson offers four “imperatives for government.”
He sets forth that marriage should be defined as “a lifelong commitment
between a man and woman,” no-fault divorce laws should be reformed,
tax policy should be tilted in favor of marriage, and welfare must be
Eternal Subservience 95
reformed “to end current incentives for conceiving children outside of
marriage.”296
The notion single women are getting pregnant to live a glamorous life
on welfare is outrageous. But Dobson makes it sound as if welfare
recipients are not only given enough to support their families, but they are
offered a large supply of rainy-day cash, enough to go out and splurge. The
only splurging most welfare families are doing is purchasing the bare
essentials to keep their family clothed and in good health. The only thing a
woman gets from welfare by having another child is a slight increase in a
far smaller-than-necessary amount of assistance. This comes mainly in
non-cash form such as food stamps, a Medicaid card, a shelter allowance
often paid directly to the landlord, daycare assistance paid directly to the
provider, and minimal cash barely covering utilities and other needs.
There are no “incentives” in the welfare system for women to
conceive out of wedlock, as welfare opponents would have us believe. The
only incentive welfare offers is mere survival. Yet, by creating such a gross
misperception in the eyes of Americans who are footing the bill for these
women’s survival, the Christian Right creates a vast network of support for
its version of welfare reform.
Another proponent of divorce law reform is former Governor John
Engler of Michigan. Engler reveals, in Policy Review, that Michigan state
legislator Jessie Dalman has been leading the way nationally. Dalman has
sponsored twelve bills that would require either mutual consent to divorce
or proof of desertion, infidelity, physical or emotional abuse, or other
serious problems. In other words, he seeks to abolish Michigan’s thirtyyear-
old no-fault divorce law. Engler praises, “The growing impact of
groups like Focus on the Family and Promise Keepers—all these signs
give me encouragement.” There is no question of Engler’s involvement in
Christian Right politics. His name is repeatedly linked to the most
prominent religious right names in literature and the media. Engler is one
of the three founders of the Mackinac Center for Public Policy, the
Michigan-based right-wing think tank advocating school vouchers, school
privatization, and free market-based policies.
To an even further extreme is Paul Weyrich, president of the Free
Congress Foundation, who recommends the suggestions of William S.
Lind and William H. Marshner, authors of Cultural Conservative: Toward
a New National Agenda. In Weyrich’s words, we should “Permit
employers to offer a ‘family wage,’ that is, a higher wage to heads of
families.”297 And who is the head of the family? If you guessed man, you
have already begun to see through the “family wage.” As described by Dr.
Carl J. Cuneo of McMaster University, Ontario, Canada, the family wage
96 The Fundamentals of Extremism
is the practice “in which men control the sources of household income on
which women and children are totally dependent.”298 Under the “family
wage,” men were commonly paid much higher wages because of the
assumption men had families to support and that women were either
supported by a husband or would eventually be supported by a spouse.
The family wage was outlawed in 1966 by the Department of Labor’s
interpretation of the Equal Pay Act of 1964. The interpretation was
adopted by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission as well, in
interpreting Title VII of the Civil Rights Act. But, Weyrich and his
comrades have called for new laws to reverse the nondiscriminatory nature
of current laws.
How else do Lind, Marshner, and Weyrich propose to keep women at
home? “Make the child-care credit universal, so parents who care for their
own children receive the same benefits as those who send their kids to
daycare.”299 Although it may be difficult to argue against encouraging
parents (women, as usually tends to be the case) to stay home with their
preschoolers, this contradicts conservatives’ position on welfare. Moms on
welfare who stay at home are accused by conservatives of taking
advantage of the system. The underlying motive in making the child-care
credit universal is evident. If families can be paid to care for their own
children, they can easily have a half dozen or more. This serves first and
foremost, fundamentalists who believe in procreation. Furthermore, it
reinforces woman as caregiver and at the same time creates a society in
which families can build their own daycare businesses. But, unlike daycare
homes, which must be licensed in most states and are limited to only a
handful of children, these families can have many children, with no
restrictions.
Another proponent of patriarchy, David Blankenhorn, president of the
Institute for American Values tells Policy Review he favors elimination of
the “antimarriage bias” of the Earned Income Tax Credit.300 Of course,
there is no bias in this credit, which is based on the size of the family and
its income. Blankenhorn calls for many other tax changes favoring married
couples as well. He advocates the discriminatory practice of giving priority
to married couples in public housing. He also recommends the
government appoint and hire people to tell Americans how they should
live by insisting in the evils of “unwed childbearing.”
Here is how he would handle teen pregnancy. Expectant girls and teen
mothers would be prevented from attending regular public schools;
thereby, unlikely to ever earn a high school diploma, a common
requirement for many jobs. Moreover, with the further reforms to the
welfare program recommended by Christian conservatives, these girls
Eternal Subservience 97
would be without financial assistance as well. Blankenhorn would have
teen fathers only miss sports and extracurricular activities.301 Boys would
not only have the opportunity to earn their high school diploma, but by
finishing high school, they could go on to earn a college degree and a
decent living.
D. James Kennedy, president of Coral Ridge Ministries Media is
considered by secularists as one of the more dangerous among the
religious right. This is because most of his viewers accept his distortion of
facts because of his ability to project an image of being reasonable—in
spite of his extreme views. He claims today we are “subsidizing
illegitimate children” in the same manner as the government once
“subsidized pigs.”302 His views on welfare and divorce are nearly identical
to those of Blankenhorn, Lind, and Marshner.303 These proposed changes
to our laws offer a disturbing picture of what fundamentalists have in store
for American society. While the immediate danger is to women in
fundamentalist homes, there’s growing concern of what divorce legislation
and welfare reform could ultimately do to advance the patriarchal agenda.
Already, in West Virginia, a $100 monthly bonus has been offered to
married couples on welfare. To middle and upper class Americans, this
hardly seems substantial enough to cause concern. Still, Sue Jilian, with the
West Virginia Coalition Against Domestic Violence, explains the
predicament this places women in who are battered. “When financial stress
and domestic violence coexist in the same relationship,” says Jilian “an
additional $100 per month can easily be used as leverage by batterers to
keep women living in poverty committed to the marriage.”304
It is difficult enough for most women to leave an abusive relationship.
However, in a poor home to a family on welfare, $100 can mean the
difference between keeping a home comfortably warm, making an
automobile payment on a used vehicle, paying for a child to participate in
school sports, and many other things most of us take for granted. The loss
of this small financial bonus is substantial to a poor woman who wants to
offer the best life she can to her child. Therefore, this $100 bonus to
married welfare recipients could be enough to keep a battered woman
from leaving a painful and dangerous situation.
The likelihood of this scenario is not insignificant. According to a
1999 report by Taylor Institute, five major research studies found an
alarming trend. Twenty to thirty percent of welfare recipients had been
experiencing domestic violence at the time the studies were conducted.305
This was actually an improvement over 1996 studies that found between
fifty and seventy-one percent of recipients were at the time experiencing
domestic violence.306 Thus, rewarding married couples through
98 The Fundamentals of Extremism
government assistance, which ultimately takes away from funds that could
be distributed evenly to all welfare recipients, serves only to keep women
in abusive situations.
The Heritage Foundation and its members, however, are not
concerned with reinstating patriarchy only in America. They want to
preserve patriarchal societies around the globe. Patrick F. Fagan, in “The
Heritage Foundation Backgrounder Executive Summary” expounds:
how various U.N. agencies are attempting to force countries to
implement a radical interpretation of treaties on women’s and
children’s rights. . . . A close examination of the reports issued by
U.N. committees monitoring implementation of the Convention
on the Rights of the Child (CRC) and the Convention to Eliminate
All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) shows
that these committees are pushing an agenda that counters
traditional moral and social norms regarding family, marriage,
motherhood, and religion.307
Misinterpreting the treaties, Fagan continues to complain that these
and similar policies advise nations to make societal changes that “decrease
emphasis on marriage, the nuclear family, parental authority, and religious
beliefs.” He is disturbed mothers are encouraged to seek fulfilling lives
outside the home and that these policies remove “social and legal
restraints” on teen sexuality. He fails to see the purpose of the policies,
which is to protect against oppressive measures violating individual rights.
Fagan goes on to claim U.N. committees ignore that children of “married
parents who worship” have “far superior outcomes” pertaining to health,
intellectual development, crime reduction, teen pregnancy, welfare
dependency, educational attainment, and income levels.308 It is an
interesting claim he not only fails to substantiate, but is contradicted by
much current research, especially pertaining to fundamentalist religious
beliefs.
According to the National Center for Policy Analysis, while teens cite
religion, values, and morals as important factors in their decision to abstain
from sex, religious teens who have sex are less likely to use
contraceptives.309 Moreover, a study conducted by the Federal Bureau of
Prisons found Catholics, which represent twenty to twenty-five percent of
the U.S. population, make up thirty-nine percent of the prison population.
Less than one percent of the prison population consists of atheists, who
make up between thirteen and sixteen percent of the U.S. population.310
Eternal Subservience 99
It is easy to conceive Third World countries controlled by the church,
where women and children have no rights, would oppose such protective
measures as outlined in these treaties. For the United States to oppose such
policies is reprehensible. Although the Clinton administration had
supported these U.N. policy statements, the United States, under George
W. Bush has refused to ratify the CRC, CEDAW, and the Convention on
the Rights of Women (CRW). Today, 191 states have ratified the CRC—it
is lacking only Somalia and the U.S.311
Eros Unplugged
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly distribute,
possess with intent to distribute, or offer or agree to distribute any
obscene material or any device designed or marketed as useful
primarily for the stimulation of human genital organs for any
thing of pecuniary value. Material not otherwise obscene may be
obscene under this section if the distribution of the material, the
offer to do so, or the possession with the intent to do so is a
commercial exploitation of erotica solely for the sake of prurient
appeal.
-Alabama Code Section 13A-12-200.2 (1998)
For most Americans, the notion of a law prohibiting the sale of
vibrators and other sex paraphernalia, especially in exclusively adult stores
or through home party plans, is preposterous. These were exactly the
sentiments of Sherri Williams, owner and operator of the Alabama-based
Pleasures boutiques, and B.J. Bailey, who sells sexual devices through
home parties. In an affidavit, Williams stated the $20,000 worth of adult
toys and paraphernalia she sells in a period of six months would be enough
to cause her business to fold if the vibrator law were enforced. Bailey, who
sells Saucy Lady products, has estimated tens of thousands of Alabama
women have attended her parties and would, therefore, be equally affected
by enforcement of the law. As would be anticipated, the case was
immediately taken on by the American Civil Liberties Union on behalf of
six women, including Williams and Bailey. The ACLU’s stance was that
the law is an invasion of privacy and, therefore, unconstitutional.
The Alabama code had become law in 1998, making it illegal for
Alabamans to sell, distribute, manufacture, possess with the intent, or even
just agree to distribute vibrators or any other device used for genital
stimulation. The penalty under this section could result in a $10,000 fine
100 The Fundamentals of Extremism
and a year in jail. A second or subsequent violation becomes a class C
felony, carrying a penalty of up to $50,000 in fines.312 The production of
these obscene items immediately holds a Class C felony charge upon the
first violation.
What is most unsettling is the law, written by state Senator Tom
Butler, mustered enough support to pass both Alabama’s House and
Senate unanimously, despite being in violation of five amendments to the
U.S. Constitution, the First, Fourth, Fifth, Ninth, and Fourteenth.313 But
anything goes in a state known for its ultraconservatism where
fundamentalist Biblical law has become the cornerstone for its
government. Near the turn of the twenty-first century, conservative
Christian politicians had gained enough seats in Alabama to substantially
violate the Constitution, especially the Separation Clause of the First
Amendment.
In 1999, U.S. District Judge Lynwood Smith ruled in favor of the
ACLU “describing the law as ‘overly broad’ and saying people would be
‘denied therapy, for, among other things, sexual dysfunction.’”314 But that
would not be the end of it for Alabamans. The case was appealed, and in
October 2000, the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals made a unanimous
decision to uphold the Alabama vibrator law. The state’s attorney general
contended, “a ban on the sale of sexual devices and related orgasmstimulating
paraphernalia is rationally related to a legitimate legislative
interest in discouraging prurient interests in autonomous sex.”315
Supporters of the law included Reverend Dan Ireland, executive
director for the Alabama Citizens Action Program (ACAP). He considers
devices for the sake of pleasure “a nuisance and they certainly are
conducive to promiscuity and loose morals.”316 Senator Butler and the
ACAP are also highly involved with churches and the Christian Coalition
on other political matters317 that would, in effect, do away with religious
freedom for all but Christian conservatives.
For two years, women in Alabama were forced to rely on out-of-state
mail order companies for purchasing sexual devices like vibrators sight
unseen. The obvious intent of the law was to suppress a woman’s sexual
pleasure. Indeed, although such intent was not written into the state code,
Alabama went so far as to say there is “no fundamental right to purchase
[emphasis added] a product to use in pursuit of having an orgasm.”318 For
these women, the law did not simply limit the ways in which they can
pleasure themselves or be pleasured by their partner. It limited whether
they can reach orgasm at all. The Alabama law and this statement in
particular, implied women have no right to even purchase vibrators by
mail or to have sexual pleasure.
Eternal Subservience 101
As an aside, Attorney General John Ashcraft holds similar views and
has “equated masturbation with pruriency,”319 points out Maxine Parshall,
president of the Detroit-area National Organization for Women. This a big
issue for fundamentalists relating to “the sin of Onan and spilling your
seed.”320
Fortunately, in October 2002, U.S. District Judge Lynwood Smith Jr.
ruled, again, in favor of the ACLU. He wrote it was a violation of “the
fundamental right of privacy, long recognized by the Supreme Court as
inherent among our constitutional protections, [which] incorporates a right
to sexual privacy.”
Female sexuality is not affected only by laws imposed by the religious
right. There is a high rate of sexual dysfunction among women. According
to a 1999 study by the University of Chicago, it was found nearly half of
all women have sexual dysfunction. Many are unable to climax or only
able to climax with the use of a vibrator.321 According to Masters and
Johnson, one of the several possible “historical antecedents” to sexual
dysfunction is religious orthodoxy. In many conservative religious homes,
sexuality for the sake of pleasure is scorned. What Masters and Johnson
found was “many of their sexually dysfunctional patients had negative
views of sexuality as a consequence.”322
In one case, a female patient “had been taught as she was growing up
not to look at herself naked in the mirror and that intercourse was reserved
for marriage and then only to be endured for purposes of having
children.”323 Women raised in fundamentalist homes, therefore, not only
may never find enjoyment in the act of sex, but also may find it
uncomfortable and even painful. Yet, it is an obligation they must fulfill to
procreate and satisfy their husband’s sexual desires.
To exemplify the perverseness placed on female sexuality, Ann
Landers replied to a man in one of her columns in 1994 “that he should not
marry a woman whose hymen was not totally intact or he would always
consider that he had settled for ‘damaged goods.’” Landers went on to
recommend potential spouses be medically examined to determine their
virginity.324 Shirley Gillett, contributing author to Women, Abuse, and the
Bible: How Scripture Can Be Used to Heal or Hurt, says that many
evangelical books warn men against considering marriage to a woman
unless she’s a virgin. Therefore, even women who have been raped or
sexually abused as a child are considered ‘damaged goods.’325 Women
who’ve engaged in teen sex or premarital sex as an adult are demonized by
fundamentalists. This plants images in women’s minds that sex is a filthy
act from which they failed to abstain. It can affect both their emotional and
sexual health, as they eventually come avoid sex altogether.
102 The Fundamentals of Extremism
There are a couple of female sexual disorders that can develop from
the fundamentalist upbringing. These include hypoactive sexual desire
disorder, in which sexual fantasies and urges seem absent, or sexual
aversion disorder, in which genital contact with another is completely
avoided. Little is known about people with low sex drives. But, “Religious
orthodoxy” or “trying to have sex with a partner of the nonpreferred
sex”326 has been seen clinically as a common cause of these dysfunctions.
A woman may also know little about her body and never have learned
what arouses her, leading to female orgasmic disorder. With this, a woman
is unable to reach orgasm even after normal stimulation and sexual
excitement. In these women, there may also be a lack of sexual knowledge
and familiarity with their genital anatomy.327 These disorders can clearly
be seen as outgrowths of fundamentalists’ opposition, in fact refusal for
their children to participate in sexuality education programs. That is not to
mention the evilness often projected about the naked female body and sex
altogether.
Your body . . . is not your body
The fertility rates of fundamentalists and evangelicals, according to
Christopher G. Ellison and Patricia Goodson, in the Journal for the
Scientific Study of Religion, are considerably higher than those of mainline
Protestants. They are less likely to use contraception the first time they
have intercourse,328 regardless of marital status, because of their lack of
knowledge regarding sex and reproduction and, just as often, because of
their opposition to birth control.329 Furthermore, to many fundamentalists,
any sexual conduct not for the purpose of procreation is “perverted.” So
fundamentalists not only reject artificial contraceptives, but often, natural
family planning as well.330
Such views create problems with fundamentalist women’s emotional,
physical, and sexual health, overpopulation, and poverty. But these views
also can affect mainstream women as fundamentalists attempt to impose
their beliefs on society. Contraceptive opponent Janet E. Smith, associate
Professor of Philosophy at University of Dallas, postulates that using
contraceptives creates a “barnyard morality.” Millions of people, she
complains, are having sex out of wedlock. “Our culture is so obsessed with
sex and hostile to babies,” she insists. According to Smith, birth control
pills should not be allowed on the market, and natural family planning is
the only appropriate form of birth control. This is because “contraception
violates fertility and caters to the animal propensity for self-indulgence.”331
Eternal Subservience 103
Smith’s characterization of sex for pleasure as animalistic is amusing,
if not a complete contradiction. Animals, unlike humans, do not act on
sexual impulses purely for pleasure, as do humans. Females of most
species are unwilling partners when not fertile. And males less interested, if
interested at all, in females when they are not in season. Therefore, while
mammal behavior (or “barnyard morality”) is not necessarily bad, which
group tends toward “animalistic” behavior? Such exaggerations and
comparisons by Christian fundamentalists could almost be seen as comical
were it not for the Christian Right’s power to meet such irrational
objectives.
In 1998, Republican Representative Chris Smith of New Jersey, an
anti-abortion extremist, proposed to legally define a variety of birth control
measures, including the IUD and oral contraceptives, as abortifacients.332
This would prohibit insurance coverage of contraceptives through Federal
Employees Health Benefit (FEHB) plans, since the FEHB plans ban
abortion services. As the National Organization for Women points out,
“Though the amendment failed, the Smith initiative is part of a larger effort
to undermine acceptability of contraceptives and to eventually restrict—or
perhaps even ban—their use.”333
The greatest issue of the moment pertaining to reproductive freedom,
however, is abortion and the Christian Right’s desire to overturn Roe v.
Wade. Almost immediately following the January 22, 1973, Supreme
Court Roe v. Wade decision, the “right to life” movement began. Leading
the crusade was the Roman Catholic Church, which in 1975 devised a fullscale
right-to-life educational and political campaign. It was called the
Pastoral Plan for Pro-Life Activities. 334 The National Conference of
Catholic Bishops’ (NCCB) detailed, 4,000-word strategy set forth:
In fulfillment of our pastoral responsibilities, the members of the
National Conference of Catholic Bishops have repeatedly
affirmed that human life is a precious gift from God; that each
person who receives this gift has responsibilities toward God,
toward self, and toward others; and that society, through its laws
and social institutions, must protect and sustain human life at
every stage of its existence. Recognition of the dignity of the
human person, made in the image of God, lies at the very heart of
our individual and social duty to respect human life.335
The plan was clear. Not only must Catholics live in accordance with
Catholic views on abortion, but so must everyone else. As the plan
revealed, the NCCB would seek “to activate the pastoral resources of the
104 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Church in three major efforts.” One would be “a public policy effort
directed toward the legislative, judicial, and administrative areas so as to
ensure effective legal protection for the right to life.” The plan describes
many objectives and ways to achieve these goals by involving Catholics,
from national Catholic organizations all the way down to laypersons.
Furthermore, the plan imparts:
Dialogue is most important–and has already proven highly
fruitful–among churches and religious groups. Efforts should
continue at ecumenical consultation and dialogue with Judaism
and other Christian bodies, and also with those who have no
specific ecclesial allegiance. Dialogue among scholars in the field
of ethics is a most important part of this interfaith effort.336
The Pastoral Plan describes how different committees, from the
diocese to the parish, work toward meeting its objectives. They will make
“a continuing public information effort to persuade all elected officials and
potential candidates that abortion must be legally restricted.” This will be
done by electing “members of their own group or active sympathizers to
specific posts in all local party organizations.” And they’ll encourage “the
development of ‘grassroots’ political action organizations,”337 for starters.
Regardless of pro-life action, abortions continued to increase,
motivating some fundamentalists to mobilize their forces. Women in need
of abortion were soon faced with crossing angry picket lines that
sometimes grew violent. Many clinics were firebombed; others received
threats, attempted bombings, and were vandalized. According to Flo
Conway and Jim Siegelman of Holy Terror: The Fundamentalist War on
America’s Freedoms in Religion, Politics and Our Private Lives, “The
pro-life movement pioneered the fundamentalist right’s use of personal
intimidation and gruesome scare tactics.”338 Promotional literature was
distributed by mail and within the anti-abortion circle, often with photos of
aborted fetuses, gorily detailing the abortion procedure.339
The Catholic Church, through its campaign, knew just what it was
doing. And with the assistance of other conservative Christian
denominations and sects, it had become a massive movement. By the end
of the 1970s, a drive to overturn Roe v. Wade was well under way. A
Human Life Amendment to the Constitution was proposed. If passed, it
would have deemed life to begin at conception, granting the fetus full legal
status.340 Thus began fundamentalists’ first efforts in terrorizing Congress
through a “March for Life.” Tens of thousands of antiabortion protestors
marched on the capital with “banners, posters, black crosses, coffins and
Eternal Subservience 105
toy babies on sticks.”341 They were unsuccessful at overturning the 1973
Supreme Court decision. But this was only the beginning of what would
become an ongoing and undying attempt at overturning Roe v. Wade.
During the 1980 election, Christian fundamentalist preachers, along
with special interest groups took on a new strategy. In addition to
brochures and mailings, pro-lifers began using every form of media to
spread its message. This included publishing articles and airing television
commercials.342 Reverend Jerry Falwell made the issue a priority in his
Moral Majority platform. This led the Republican Party to give way to
Falwell and the fundamentalists’ pro-life cause, as the party adopted the
platform and endorsed “pro-life judges and passage of the Human Life
Amendment.” Ronald Reagan became the first serious presidential
candidate to favor the fundamentalists’ extreme anti-abortion position.343
Reagan, an actor, used his rhetorical skills to convince anti-abortionists he
was their guy, and it worked like a charm to get their votes.
The following years saw continued attempts to overturn Roe v. Wade
and to place restrictions on abortion. In 1989, in Webster v. Reproductive
Health Services, the Supreme Court heard arguments on a Missouri law
declaring life begins at conception. It placed burdensome restrictions on
abortion such as “forbidding the use of public funds for the purpose of
counseling a woman to have an abortion not necessary to save her life.” It
also forbid “the use of public facilities for abortions not necessary to save a
woman's life.”344 Thirty-three pro-choice briefs were filed on behalf of “a
broad range of groups, representing every major sect of American society”
opposing the Missouri law. A narrow range of groups, consisting of
Catholic fundamentalist and antiabortion organizations, filed forty-five
briefs favoring the Missouri restrictions.345 The conservative Court upheld
the Missouri law, which opened the door to similar restrictions in other
states.
While still unable to overturn Roe v. Wade, the movement has
undoubtedly seen significant gains. The evangelical Randall Terry,
founder of Operation Rescue, an extreme antiabortion coalition, reveals
social unrest in large numbers can cause politicians to give in to such
groups in an effort to calm the nation.346 In 1993, Operation Rescue
formed the Institute of Mobilized Prophetic Activated Christian Training
(IMPACT). Antiabortionists from around the country took part in the
drills. They learned how to harass and expose anyone involved in abortion
clinics and even those associated with the pro-choice movement.347 At one
IMPACT training session, Terry proclaimed, “Intolerance is a beautiful
thing. We’re going to make [abortionists’] lives a living hell.”348 Terry has
106 The Fundamentals of Extremism
been heavily influenced by Reconstructionism, one of the more extreme
forms of Christian fundamentalism.
Another antiabortion group, Rescue America, began distributing
“wanted posters” for doctors who perform abortions. This, however, was
only the beginning of what would grow into a violent and deadly form of
pro-life activism.349 On March 10, 1993, a Rescue America participant,
Michael Griffin, shot Dr. David Gunn, outside the doctor’s abortion clinic.
Radical groups such as Operation Rescue and Rescue America lost
followers as a result of the violence. Nonetheless, the organizations
reached out for new recruits. According to William Martin, “At a July
[1993] rally, [Terry] urged a group of Denver Christians to become
‘intolerant zealots [of] baby killers, sodomites, condom-pushers and that
pluralism nonsense.’”350 Another Operation Rescue member, Reverend
Keith Tucci had also declared, regarding the RU 486 (Mifeprex) abortion
drug, “When they invent new ways to kill children, we will invent new
ways to save them.”351
In July 1994, former Presbyterian minister Paul Hill murdered Dr.
John Bayard Britton and his driver, Jim Barrett outside a Pensacola
abortion clinic. In November 1994, the saga continued as Operation
Rescue attempted to justify the use of violence. Another activist added, “It
isn’t always wrong to kill.” It was claimed, “Violence doesn’t necessarily
beget violence. Sometimes it solves violence.” A month later, two female
clinic workers, Lee Ann Nichols and Shanon Lowney, in Brookline,
Massachusetts were shot to death by John Salvi, a Catholic antiabortionist.
352
The contradictory views of pro-lifers who are willing to murder are
not surprising, since the dogmatic views held by fundamentalists are not
allowed to be questioned. As Conway and Siegelman found through
personal interviews with fundamentalists, the positions they hold on
various issues are often contradictory and hypocritical. Those who claimed
to be for life on the abortion issue most often favored the death penalty and
America’s nuclear weapons. They were generally unsympathetic to the
needs of the poor and were against government health care for poor
mothers or hot school lunches for needy children.353
Now, with the new millennium, the antiabortion crusade is, in many
ways, as strong as ever. Fundamentalists have managed to have more
restrictions placed on abortion. These include waiting periods, parental
permission, and elimination of public funding. However, nothing short of a
complete halt to abortion will satisfy the campaign, even when the lives of
women are at stake.
Eternal Subservience 107
The Catholic public information campaign, along with its Protestant
fundamentalist anti-abortion allies, has gone so far as to misrepresent the
reasons women often seek abortion. This has become evident in the socalled
“partial-birth” debate—a term created by anti-abortionists to mislead
the public about late-term abortions performed only to save the life and
health of the mother.
Anti-abortionists misrepresent abortion as the birth control method of
choice for most women who seek abortion. In actuality, failed
contraceptives are the cause of nearly half of abortions. From 1979 to 1982
alone, there were 1.61 million pregnancies resulting from contraceptive
failure.354 All the studies found contraceptives to be the preferred method
of birth control, and women choose abortion “as a last resort.” Unwanted
pregnancies occur frequently among women who have inadequate family
planning materials or services.355 Yet, anti-abortionists fail to acknowledge
these common reasons women turn to abortion. They instead paint a
picture that abortion is the birth control method of choice among most
women seeking the procedure.
Such misrepresentations, along with the Catholic anti-abortion
movement’s considerable financial means for waging its media campaign,
have led to public confusion and growing support of the antiabortion
endeavor. According to a June 2000 Los Angeles Times poll, support for
Roe v. Wade dropped from fifty-six percent in favor of choice in 1991 to
only forty-three percent in 2000.356 Regardless of the Church’s stance, the
abortion rate among Catholics is thirty percent higher than that of
Protestants.357
More troubling, George W. Bush’s selection of John Ashcroft as U.S.
Attorney General was a significant blow to the safety of women’s
reproductive freedom. While serving as attorney general of Missouri,
Ashcroft sought to overturn Roe v. Wade through U.S. Supreme Court
cases. He also cosponsored a resolution, as U.S. senator, for a
Constitutional amendment “to ban abortion even in cases of rape and
incest.”358 During Bush’s administration, it is expected sixty-three federal
bench vacancies, as well as Supreme Court vacancies, will occur. The
danger Ashcroft poses by being a part in selecting candidates for these
nominations is imminent.359 To think otherwise would be a gross
miscalculation on the part of the choice movement.
Of course, while antiabortionists’ ultimate goal is very clear—to
overturn Roe v. Wade—most of the anti-abortion cases that go to court
stem from state laws. These are far easier to pass. Antiabortionists know
that even if challenged, the amount of time that would lapse between
implementing a law and opponents gaining a judgment against the law
108 The Fundamentals of Extremism
would be significant. Enough so as to impede at least a substantial number
of girls and women’s access to abortion. This makes passing laws in
violation of the Supreme Court’s Roe v. Wade decision a tempting option
for the religious right. There seems no shortage of politicians willing to
violate the law of the land. This is especially so at state and local levels. In
the last legislative session of 2000 in Michigan alone, twenty-three bills
were introduced to restrict abortion and reproductive rights.360
The anti-abortion campaign, as John Swomley, Professor emeritus of
Social Ethics at St. Paul School of Theology points out, stems from the
doctrine of the Roman Catholic Church “that every sexual act must be
open to procreation.”361 This is also the view held by fundamentalist
Protestants who have been most publicly visible in the drive against
choice—just as I suspect the Catholic campaign intended. Regardless of
the Catholic stance, as Swomley explains, the Vatican created the antiabortion
campaign in opposition to Biblical scripture. Not only is there no
Biblical basis to support the anti-abortion sentiment, there are many
passages in the Bible that support abortion.362 In one such passage,
Numbers 31:17, God orders: “Now therefore kill every male among the
little ones.” This hardly supports fundamentalists’ pro-life stance.
It is Swomley’s belief that the right to life movement not only wants
women to be subordinate to men, but to their fetuses as well. In 1988, the
Republican Party platform declared “that the unborn child has a
fundamental right to life which cannot be infringed.” Platform committee
member Marjorie Bell Chambers “argued that in the conflict between
saving the fetus or the life of the woman, the phrase, ‘cannot be infringed’
meant ‘that men and fetuses have a right to life at all times, but women lose
that right when they become pregnant.’”363 Chambers moved to amend the
platform to eliminate the last four words. However, those on the committee
defeated Chamber’s amendment that would have protected the life of the
mother. This was by a fifty-five to thirty-three vote, with eleven
abstentions.364
Despite the Christian Right’s efforts to overturn Roe v. Wade, a
number of Christian denominations and other religious groups have taken
a pro-choice stance, holding abortion is a personal choice. These
denominations agree it is a decision individuals should make according to
their own religious and personal beliefs.365 The organization Catholics for
a Free Choice believes similarly. It is fighting against Catholic
fundamentalist attempts to impose their religiously based views on others.
On December 12, 2000, CBS’s 60 Minutes featured a report by
Morley Safer on Catholic-controlled hospitals in America. According to
the report, four out of ten of America’s largest health care systems are
Eternal Subservience 109
owned by or are under the control of the Roman Catholic Church. In
almost half of the hospitals that have merged with or made alliances with
the Catholic Church, services have been cut. Catholics for a Free Choice
opposes Catholic doctrine being instituted in medical practices. According
to the organization’s president, Frances Kissling, when hospitals merge
with Catholic institutions, many services are eliminated. Family planning,
contraceptives, including condoms, sterilization, fertility treatment, and
abortion are not available in these facilities. Moreover, they cannot even be
discussed. Kissling pointed out, “Medical decisions about reproductive
health care in Catholic hospitals or non-Catholic hospitals that merge with
Catholic hospitals are made by religious authorities, not doctors.” 366
Catholic control of hospitals is not the only issue affecting women’s
reproductive health. Controversy over the procedure known as “partialbirth
abortion” has drawn many unsuspecting proponents of choice into
the Christian Right’s bandwagon regarding the procedure. The medical
term most closely resembling the description of the “partial-birth abortion”
is properly termed “intact dilation and extraction.” This method is
sometimes used because prior to thirty-six weeks, the cervix is resistant to
dilation. This resistance causes much physical pain during the two to four
days it takes to dilate at this stage. Inductions done before this time also
pose risk of uterine rupture. Therefore, continuous nursing supervision is
required if drug induced labor is carried out rather than performing intact
dilation and extraction.367
In the campaign against late-term abortions, pro-life activists have
created the illusion women are deciding at the eleventh-hour that they
suddenly do not want to have a baby and, with no concern for their preborn,
decide to abort. By creating this misperception and graphically
depicting the procedure to appeal to the emotions of the public, even many
pro-choice advocates argue the procedure must stop.
The reasons for the use of late-term abortion are not for women who
have a last minute change of heart. The procedure is used for the sake of
the woman’s health and, in some cases, when there is “severe fetal
abnormality,” says obstetrician Dr. Allan Rosenfield, who is also the dean
of New York’s Columbia School of Public Health. Many complications
can arise late in pregnancy threatening a woman’s life. Tragically, it is also
sometimes discovered a fetus would be unable to survive birth. In these
instances, continuing the pregnancy could pose other serious health risks to
the mother or result in the inability to conceive again.368
Furthermore, the reality is only 1.4 percent of all abortions are
performed twenty-one weeks into pregnancy or beyond.369 The estimated
number of abortions performed beyond twenty-six weeks is fewer than
110 The Fundamentals of Extremism
five-hundredths of a percent.370 Considering the number of babies born
with severe defects and the number of health complications that women
face during pregnancy or delivery, this number is exceptionally small. Still,
anti-abortionists would have us believe pregnancy and childbirth are
completely without risk. It matters not that the World Health Organization
reports “585,000 women die each year during childbirth and pregnancy.”
And “for every maternal death,” it is reported “as many as thirty women
sustain often times crippling and lifelong health problems related to
pregnancy.”371
Maureen Mary Britell of Sandwich, Massachusetts learned from a
sonogram her fetus was not developing a brain. Medical experts confirmed
the baby would not survive, so the couple, with the support of their priest,
chose to terminate the pregnancy by inducing labor. Unfortunately,
complications arose during the delivery, which required cutting the
umbilical cord to abort the fetus to prevent health risks to Britell.372
In another case, Coreen Costello of Agoura, California desperately
wanted her daughter. But she discovered the fetus had lethal
neuromuscular disease and would be unable to survive. Even after it was
discovered dangerous levels of amniotic fluid had built up, the Christian
couple struggled with the decision to terminate the pregnancy for more
than two weeks. Finally, it became absolutely necessary for Costello to
abort for the sake of her health.373
Regardless of the health risks it would pose to expecting mothers, antiabortionists
propose legislation to ban the use of the procedure under all
conditions and in spite of the recommendations of major medical
associations. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists
argues, “The physician, in consultation with the patient, must choose the
most appropriate method based upon the patient’s individual
circumstances.”374 The American Nurses Association agrees: “It is
inappropriate for the law to mandate a clinical course of action for a
woman who is already faced with an intensely personal and difficult
decision.”375 Nonetheless, anti-abortionists place the life of the unborn,
non-breathing fetus ahead of the life of the mother.
The antiabortion movement poses another health risk to women as
well. According to Flora Davis, in Moving the Mountain: The Women’s
Movement in America since 1960, abortion was legal in the country until
around 1900.376 By that time, male physicians desiring to increase business
by taking on child birthing, had gained the support of churches and the
clergy in condemning the practice.377 Previously, women saw midwives
and others for their reproductive health. Churches had originally not
opposed abortion, until the business-cause of the male physicians took
Eternal Subservience 111
hold.378 Regardless of the illegalization of abortion, by the 1960s, more
than a million abortions were performed annually in the United States “by
moonlighting clerks, salesmen, and barbers, and, less often, by doctors
willing to risk imprisonment.”379
Bernard Nathanson, M.D., a recently converted anti-abortion activist
describes in his 1996 autobiography, The Hand of God, the horrors women
faced before Roe v. Wade:
At least two-thirds of the clinic females ambulanced to our
emergency room in the middle of the night, bleeding profusely
and in severe pain, were the victims of botched illegal abortions,
not spontaneous miscarriages. . . . Those of us practicing
gynecology no longer see the results of illegal induced abortion:
the raging fevers, the torn and obstructed intestines; the shredded
uterus requiring immediate hysterectomy; the raging infections
leaving many women sterile, exhausted, in chronic pain. . . .
Illegal abortion was in 1967 the number one killer of pregnant
women.380
“Every year,” according to Davis, “more than 350,000 women who
had an illegal abortion suffered complications serious enough to be
hospitalized; 500 to 1,000 of them died.”381 Today, approximately 70,000
women die from unsafe abortions each year, 69,000 of them from less
developed countries. A significantly larger number of women suffer
complications from the estimated 20 million unsafe abortions undergone
annually around the world.382
Should Roe v. Wade be reversed, the situation in the United States
would be no different today than it was decades ago or than current
conditions in less-developed countries across the globe. Since the
legalization of abortion, a survey administered by Reproductive Health
Services in St. Louis has been given to patients at their three-week medical
check-up after abortion. It found every woman would have sought an
illegal and unsafe way to end her pregnancy if legalized abortion were not
available or else they would have considered suicide.383
Perhaps the most disturbing part of this whole right-to-life effort is that
fundamentalists and the religious right refuse to take part in the prevention
of pregnancy. This could easily be done by advocating for appropriate sex
education and contraceptive use or by improving the economic conditions
for low-income women to support a baby.384 Yet, they have gone to great
lengths to prevent appropriate and adequate sex and family planning
education. And they have worked to make birth control difficult, if not
112 The Fundamentals of Extremism
impossible, to obtain. This has been especially so with the most effective
contraceptives, and not only for youth, but for many adults, especially the
poor.
While fundamentalists insist on abstinence-only or celibacy as an
answer to pregnancy prevention, it has proven an unrealistic method of
birth control for a majority of the population. As a result, girls and women
become pregnant. Abortion then becomes the only suitable solution for the
many who are unable, at the time, to take on the responsibility of having a
baby and who are emotionally unable to give up a baby for adoption. In
turn, the fundamentalists who prevented these women from obtaining and,
therefore using contraceptives, accuse these women of using abortion as
their method of choice for birth control. Then, in contrast, when unmarried
women choose not to have an abortion, they’re accused of having many
children to take advantage of the welfare system. In reality, having more
children was the last thing they wanted. Either way, pregnant women are
punished.
Immense suffering takes place for women around the world. This is a
result of lack of knowledge pertaining to and access to contraceptives and
in many parts of the world, where safe abortion is inaccessible. Regardless,
on May 28, 1992, the New York Times reported that Vatican diplomats
were preparing for the upcoming Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro. The
diplomats were campaigning to ensure any decisions on the population
issue would not be “in conflict with Roman Catholic teaching on birth
control,” points out Swomley.385 The Vatican has standing as a member
nation of the United Nations and has been criticized by Catholics for a Free
Choice for holding this special status.386 But in the end, it had its way. It
succeeded in gaining enough right-wing support, as Swomley reveals:
to block the United States from paying its debt to the United
Nations by attaching an amendment to ban the use of federal
funds by any private or government organization that supports
abortion overseas or counsels women on where to get an
abortion.387
Most alarming, almost immediately upon taking office in 2001,
President George W. Bush placed a ban on U.S. aid to overseas
organizations that, according to the ACLU, “use their own money to
counsel women and girls on their reproductive choices.”388 Such decisions
do not affect just women. In the May 1991 issue of the American Journal
of Psychiatry, Dr. Paul K. B. Dagg found that women who are denied
abortions are not the only ones to suffer serious psychological and social
Eternal Subservience 113
problems. Their children, who otherwise would have been aborted, suffer
immensely, as well.389 These children lack a secure childhood, require
more psychiatric care, and have an increased rate of juvenile delinquency,
among other problems.
Furthermore, 14 million American children go to bed hungry every
night. And in the United States, the infant mortality rate ranks twentieth
among industrialized nations.390 In 1984, according to The New York
Times, the United States had more than 50,000 children available for
adoption.391 Many have multiple handicaps, requiring lifetime medical
care. So how will our nation care for more unwanted children should Roe
v. Wade be overturned? It is clear that concern for the unborn is not the
issue at hand. The anti-abortion campaign is, largely, just one more way
for patriarchs to keep women under their control.
The dangers fundamentalism poses to women are many. Women raised
in Christian fundamentalist homes suffer emotionally, sexually, and
physically as adults. This is because of the beliefs with which they have
been indoctrinated and, ultimately, from their acceptance of male
domination in the marriage. As a result, their marriages suffer also.
Women in the mainstream, as well as fundamentalist women, suffer from
legislation affecting their reproductive rights and sexual gratification. They
often lack education and access to information pertaining to reproduction
and contraception. They are impaired by stereotyping affecting educational
attainment, job opportunities, and equity in wages. Women’s health is
compromised by religiously-based medical decisions not conducive to
maintaining life. They are also affected by stereotypes leading to rape as
well as divorce legislation and unfair welfare initiatives. Finally, they are
hindered by a wide range of acts meant to keep women barefoot, pregnant,
and in their “proper” role.
114
Chapter 5
THE SOCIAL IMPLICATIONS
OF ARMAGEDDON
by Kimberly Blaker
We are engaged in a social, political, and cultural war. There's a lot of talk
in America about pluralism. But the bottom line is somebody's values will
prevail.392
Gary Bauer, former head of Family Research Council
The war Gary Bauer warns of is not against our age-old communist
enemies or “America’s New War” as CNN dubbed our actions against
Osama Bin Laden and other Islamic terrorists. Bauer specifically speaks of
a civil war, in which Americans fight each other for the right to dictate
morality and social standards for everyone in the United States. Most will
react to this with detachment. “I didn’t enlist. I wasn’t drafted. This is not
my war. I’m not the one they’re attacking.” Americans see things happen
and how they are affected, but do not necessarily see these as acts of war.
Yet, looking around at the world, the war becomes easier to see.
Instinctively, the truth of Bauer’s statement can be accepted. Yes, there is a
war. Yes, eventually, someone will probably win. In and of itself, his
statement is not so confrontational. His colleague, however, Coach Bill
McCartney, head of the Promise Keepers sheds a bit more light on the
fundamentalist role in this fight:
What you are about to hear is God's word to the men of this
nation. We are going to war as of tonight. We have divine
power—that is our weapon. We will not compromise. Wherever
truth is at risk, in the schools or legislature, we are going to
contend for it. We will win.393
Bauer warns of being surrounded by a war touching every corner of
Americans’ lives. McCartney informs that his army is leading the fight,
The Social Implications of Armageddon 115
and God is its weapon. Therefore, looking at the effects of fundamentalism
on society is a matter of identifying the battleground, understanding the
weapons, and assessing the casualties. Battlegrounds are not something
with which most Americans are familiar. It has been more than half a
century since a national government attacked any part of the United States.
It has been far longer since America has experienced an ongoing war on its
home turf. So, it comes as a surprise to many to learn that the battleground
of the war is right in their own backyards, as demonstrated by the aims of
fundamentalism.
Several fundamentalist battles and weapons pose serious danger to
society. Fundamentalists are the main supporters in what they refer to as
pro-life issues. They oppose abortion and often all forms of birth control—
not just for adherents, but for all of society. This ultimately leads to high
rates of poverty and increased expense to the public. More problematic is
the domino effect that ensues. Poverty causes a vast array of social
problems from low educational attainment and unemployment to drug
abuse, alcoholism, and even crime.
Another battle is the fundamentalist desire to rid society of those it
perceives as its enemies or, if nothing else, to reduce the status of those
enemies. Based on fundamentalist prejudices, such enemies include
women, gays and lesbians, other races, and adherents of other religions or
no religion.
Crime and violence is a key battle of fundamentalists. However, their
inability to see other than in black and white terms leads to proposing and
frequently implementing laws that are ineffective in practice. More often,
those practices actually promote crime and violence. Although religious
conservatives claim their stringent moral code reduces the rates of murder,
rape, and other crimes, this is generally not so. It may actually lead them to
criminal behavior.
One of the weapons used by Christian fundamentalists with
devastating effects is cult-like recruitment practices. This characteristic
places those with certain vulnerabilities at risk for getting involved and
often trapped into emotionally damaging and sometimes deadly
movements.
When speaking of the fundamentalist war, it is generally understood to
be one in which democratic principles are used by both sides to propose
and oppose local, state, and federal laws. Some fundamentalists are
physically preparing for a lethal war they perceive as imminent. Heavilyarmed
militias are scattered throughout the country and are training armies
for war-like battles that could take place in Americans’ own backyards. All
of this necessitates a review of the moral development or lack thereof, of
116 The Fundamentals of Extremism
those claiming to have the market on this attribute. The fundamentalist
claim fails to hold up to sociological theory.
The fundamentals of poverty
Christian fundamentalist beliefs and practices pertaining to sexual
abstinence and procreation lead to poverty. This affects not only those
within the fundamentalist religious culture, but society at-large. This is
demonstrated as fundamentalists advocate policies or prevent measures
that would protect against untimely or unwanted pregnancy and childbirth.
Such policies promoted by fundamentalists include minimizing or
eradicating sex education programs, withholding birth control options, and
measures to restrict abortion.
Although not all Catholics fit the fundamentalist criteria, there is a
large Catholic fundamentalist population. The reality of the fundamentalist
desire to populate and force the whole human race to continue multiplying
is demonstrated best by the Vatican. It “has been one of the most adamant
opponents of contraceptive birth control and worldwide family planning
for decades,”394 says John M. Swomley, Professor emeritus of Social
Ethics at St. Paul School of Theology.
To exemplify this, the Pittsburgh Tribune Review reported on April 4,
1998, that in the 1980s, Pope John Paul II counseled Kenyans in Nairobi.
They had the fastest-growing population in Africa and “probably in the
world,” at the time, yet were told to “be fruitful and multiply.”395 Such
practices and policies promoting population growth ultimately lead to
poverty and welfare dependency, where welfare is still even available, for
both fundamentalists and a large segment of society. In turn, these
practices indirectly cause crime, health problems, mental illness, drug
addiction, alcoholism, unemployment, and other serious social problems.
The relationship between the promotion of population growth and
poverty can easily be illustrated. “The United States’ child poverty rate is
substantially higher—often two to three times higher—than that of most
other major Western industrialized nations,”396 says the National Center
for Children in Poverty. The U.S. poverty rate ranged between 22.4 and 25
percent from 1986 to 1997. The Netherlands is one of the least religious
regions and with the most liberal of policies pertaining to sex education,
drugs, and other social issues. Yet, its poverty rate ranged between only 5.2
and 8.1 percent during the period of 1987 to 1994.397
High poverty rates are associated with a number of factors. These
include populations that are more rural, offer fewer educational
opportunities, or suffer governmental mismanagement through practicing
The Social Implications of Armageddon 117
or enacting laws that have an indirect effect on poverty. The conditions
breeding poverty, as listed above and discussed in more detail below, are
not cut and dry. According to much data, many of the states with the
highest poverty rates also have the highest fundamentalist populations.398
Though this does not mean in and of itself fundamentalism causes poverty,
it does show it fails to alleviate it. Furthermore, if the connection is
reversed, it shows poor people are more likely to become fundamentalists,
as has been suggested by social scientists.
Several characteristics of fundamentalism increase the odds or
maintain the cycle of poverty. To understand this fully, one must look at
the causes and nature of poverty. A wide variety of factors can lead to
poverty, while at the same time stem from it as well. Low education levels,
drinking, gambling, drug addiction, high unemployment rates, medical and
emotional problems, and racial and sexual discrimination are causes and
symptoms of poverty.
Typically, poverty is passed from one generation to the next. It begins
with a “poor family with young children,” which “results in substandard
living conditions.”399 This generally leads to lack of interest in school.400
From there the cycle may be cut short by teen pregnancy, resulting in
single parenting. This continues the cycle of poverty.401 Alternatively, the
cycle may progress as youth try to escape substandard living conditions
and drop out of school. This leads to the circumstances that will forever
trap him or her into poverty.402 Those who have young children as well,
are even more financially strapped. This ultimately “lock[s] them into
poverty for the rest of their lives.” As the cycle is completed, the children
from this poverty-stricken family continue down a similar path.403
How this relates to fundamentalism can be observed in many ways.
First, there is a definite negative correlation between fundamentalist beliefs
and educational attainment. In 2000, only 18.7 percent of those who said
they believe the Bible is the literal word of God had any education beyond
high school. Yet, 30.8 percent of all respondents had gone on to junior
college or better. Even more telling, 22.6 percent of the Biblical literalists
never finished high school, compared to only 14.8 percent of the general
population.404 It should be noted, however, this is not necessarily the case
for fundamentalists that are politically active, as they are often highly
educated.
Discrimination is another factor of poverty that is also related to
fundamentalism. Discrimination results in limited employment
opportunities and equity in pay for women, other races, and gays and
lesbians. The relationship between fundamentalism and discrimination will
be discussed in depth later in this chapter.
118 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Certainly not all emotional and mental health problems can be
attributed to fundamentalism. Still, it does lead to a wide variety of mental
health problems as has been revealed so far and will be further examined.
Most notable, however, is the fundamentalist attitude promoting
childbearing, regardless of the economic condition of the teenager,
woman, or couple. This results in scores of children brought into a world
of poverty, to continue the ongoing cycle.
Teenage pregnancy rates are an indicator of social conditions. As a
nation, the U.S. dominates the economic world of the most developed
countries. Nevertheless, ABC News has reported the U.S. teen pregnancy
rate nearly matches Russia’s and is higher than all of Eastern Europe. Teen
pregnancy is four times as likely to occur in the United States as it is in
Japan or France.405 Although the U.S. teenage pregnancy rate has steadily
dropped over the past decade, even the rate of decline does not match that
of Western Europe. “We’ve made some progress,” says Susheela Singh,
lead author of a year 2000 study on teen pregnancy that was performed by
the Guttmacher Institute. “[B]ut we haven’t caught up [to the other
developed countries],”406 she points out.
A strong correlation between high rates of teen pregnancy and greater
prevalence of fundamentalism is evident from the available data.407 More
than half of the states falling into the top bracket of fundamentalist activity
are also in the top third for teen pregnancy rates. While this alone does not
demonstrate a causal link, it is clear that fundamentalist activity does little,
if anything, to prevent teens from having sex or becoming pregnant. If it
does have any effect, it is more likely to increase, rather than reduce teen
pregnancy.
Beyond the attempts by fundamentalists to keep women barefoot and
pregnant, as covered in the previous chapter, countless tactics are used by
pro-lifers to prevent women from obtaining abortions. As of 1992,
approximately 1,500 to 3,000 Crisis Pregnancy Centers (CPC) were
operating across the country. These facilities counsel between 700,000 and
one million women annually.408 Many CPCs, especially those affiliated
with the Pearson Institute, are set up to intentionally give women the false
pretense they are contacting or visiting a medical clinic that offers
abortions. Once the women are inside, many of these CPCs use shock
tactics and other misinformation to scare teen girls and women out of
undergoing abortion. Such tactics include dispensing false information
pertaining to abortion related death rates, as well as showing visitors gory
visual imagery of shredded fetuses. In such clinics, women are filled with
guilt for contemplating abortion, even when a single mother already has
several children and no income.409
The Social Implications of Armageddon 119
Of course, not all CPCs use such devious tactics. Yet, even those that
are up front do admit the problems experienced by women in their clinics.
Many, if not most of the women entering, are poor and unsure how they
will manage another mouth to feed.410 The responsibilities posed by
another child when the mother-to-be is an adolescent or already physically
taxed is yet another concern not adequately addressed. Clinic workers
confess they are often able to convince a teen girl or a poor woman to
continue a pregnancy. They do this by offering donations such as a
microwave or assistance in meal planning to reduce some of the time
expended in parenting.411 While such propositions may be well
intentioned and seemingly helpful, in the scheme of things, such donations
and assistance are a minute fraction of the total costs, time, and energy
required to raise a child.
Therefore, a poor woman or young girl makes the decision not to
abort. After the baby arrives, it is likely to be discovered the mother is not
up to the task when coming face-to-face with the full brunt of the financial,
physical, and emotional stress of parenting. Ultimately, this poses a variety
of problems, most notably locking the family into a cycle of poverty.
Fundamental differences: the cultivation of prejudice
Perhaps one of the most obvious characteristics of Christian
fundamentalism, yet the most vehemently denied by its adherents, is the
fundamentalist relationship to prejudice and discrimination, and ultimately
hate crimes, whether based on race, religion, gender, or sexual orientation.
While fundamentalism is not the only factor contributing to prejudices,
there is a strong relationship between the two. Conservative Christian
biases have been observed in a preponderance of events throughout
American history. As noted in the previous chapter, only within the last
hundred years did women gain the right to vote, as well as many other
rights long afforded to men. Also evident is that the misogyny of the
Christian Right has far from dissipated.
Bigotry toward those of other religious beliefs has been repeatedly
demonstrated. In fact, Protestants and Catholics have each been at the
giving and receiving end of discriminatory practices toward each other.
Jews, Muslims, and atheists have also been victims of Christian
fundamentalist prejudices.
While slavery itself did not originate from Christian fundamentalism,
it did ultimately come to be favored by conservative Christians, as they
eventually led the fight for its preservation. Even following the
120 The Fundamentals of Extremism
conservative South’s loss in the Civil War, fundamentalists diligently
strove to maintain segregation.
Psychologists and psychiatrists now consider homosexuality an inborn
trait and normal for a small percent of the population rather than a disorder.
Regardless, Christian fundamentalists view homosexuality as a sin. They
are responsible for preventing policies offering equity to gays and lesbians
and for torturous hate crimes against homosexuals, who they perceive as
wicked and immoral inhabitants of society.
Although slavery may have originated without religious motive, when
the North American practice became challenged, the Bible and
conservative Christian doctrine were used to uphold it. Conservative
Christianity became one of the strong motivators for keeping it intact.
Although the evangelical South had once condemned slavery, the
movement eventually took the proslavery stance,412 “with the belief that
the Bible sanctioned it.”413 Conservative followers of the Christian faith
were not the only ones to endorse the practice, however. As Brinkley
notes, the southern Protestant clergy was the most effective in the 1820s
and 1830s in defending it. The majority of southern Christian ministers
argued that because of the inferiority of blacks, it was the duty of whites to
maintain slavery for the sake of the African-Americans’ “physical and
spiritual needs. . . .”414
But beyond simple concern for the welfare of blacks, as George
Brown Tindall, Kenan Professor of History at University of North
Carolina reflects, the following were the Biblical sentiments of the 1800s:
Had not the patriarchs of the Old Testament held bondsmen? Had
not Noah, upon awakening from a drunken stupor, cursed
Canaan, son of Ham, from whom the Negroes were descended?
Had not Saint Paul advised servants to obey their masters and told
a fugitive servant to return to his master? And had not Jesus
remained silent on the subject, at least so far as the Gospels
reported his words?415
Regardless of the Biblical basis for slavery, the more liberal northern
Protestant clergy disagreed with the institution. And in the 1840s, the
northern clergy’s opposition to slavery led to a split in Methodist and
Baptist churches, dividing the branches into the north and the south.416
Over the years, tensions grew between the North and South over various
issues. White southerners were opposed to the North’s abandonment of
“traditional American values.” Eventually they became dangerously
The Social Implications of Armageddon 121
militant in their proslavery stance, one of the factors contributing to the
Civil War in 1861.
When the defeated South reluctantly surrendered in 1865, all slaves
were finally freed. But many in the south were outraged over the end of
slavery, and in 1867, believing whites were God’s chosen people, the Ku
Klux Klan was formed. Its purpose was no secret: to intimidate blacks or
those who defended them and to keep blacks “in their place.” From the
period of 1889 to 1918, the hatred of the Klan was revealed as it “captured
and hung 3,224 men, women, and children, mostly black.”417
“Christian fundamentalism was a cornerstone of institutional racism,”
explains Forrest G. Wood, Professor of History, at California State
University, Bakersfield and author of Black Scare: the Racist Response to
Emancipation and Reconstruction. Before the 1900s, most Christians held
a fundamental view of the infallibility of the Bible and its literal
interpretation; and the story of Noah’s Curse was used to justify slavery.418
The twentieth century, however, marked the fight for segregation—and
fundamentalists’ fight to maintain the status quo.
In Brown v. Board of Education (1954), the United States Supreme
Court made the landmark decision to end segregation. This led Reverend
G.T. Gillespie to speak before the Mississippi Synod of the Presbyterian
Church. There, he reaffirmed his belief in Noah’s Curse.419 Although
Presbyterians are typically mainstream, there have been rifts in the
movement. This has been observed in many denominations. Differences in
views on Biblical inerrancy and literalism have led to splits, as eventually
happened with Presbyterians in 1973.420
Gillespie, one Presbyterian who strayed from the more liberal views of
the movement, had been inspired by Jefferson Davis. Davis had spoken
nearly a century beforehand to the Mississippi Democratic State
Convention in defense of the slave trade and chattel slavery. He had
alluded “to the ‘importance of the race of Ham’ as a fulfillment of its
destiny to be ‘servant of servants.’” Gillespie’s reaffirmation was
distributed by the white supremacist Citizens’ Council of Greenwood,
under the title, “A Christian View on Segregation.”421
Today the Biblical basis for holding racist views has become less
acceptable and therefore, less visible. But there is, undoubtedly, a
relationship between modern-day racism and fundamentalism. Perhaps the
best evidence comes from the continuation of the Ku Klux Klan as well as
other extreme Christian based sects such as the Aryan Nation, also known
as the Church of Jesus Christ Christian, and the Christian Identity
movement.
122 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Less recognized for racism, but still of issue is the Reconstructionist
movement. Although Chalcedon Institute, the organization founded by the
late R.J. Rushdoony, denies its interest in reinstituting black slavery, the
movement does favor slavery as a means of paying off debts. The Ontario
Consultants on Religious Tolerance has noted Reconstructionists’ desire to
reestablish slavery. The organization has received e-mail from unhappy
Reconstructionists who deny such a desire.422 Nonetheless, the
organization has also received many letters from Reconstructionists in
support of slavery who point out it would be good for North America.423
There is an overlapping of many fundamentalist sects and movements.
Therefore, the likelihood that a large number of Reconstructionists’ desire
to enslave other races is a high probability, regardless of the claims or
views of the Chalcedon Institute.
This is demonstrated by many white supremacists and their
organizations. They have begun linking their websites to Reconstructionist
pages and taking up the Reconstructionist philosophy. One such example
is at the website of God’s Order Affirmed in Love. This site claims,
“Christianity has historically been a religion of the white race regardless of
how hard whites have tried to convert the world.”424 God’s Order insists,
“In addition to being grounded upon a Biblical foundation, Reconstruction
must be built upon preserving our families which includes the greater
racial family (nation) that we were born into.”425 There has also been much
support by the Christian Identity and Aryan Nations movements for
Reconstructionism.
Although in most instances racism is not openly a part of the
fundamentalist repertoire, there is a definite correlation even among other
fundamentalist groups. Such prejudices are evident as was witnessed in the
1970s. Approximately one hundred religious schools lost their tax-exempt
status when they avoided integration.426 While most of this has changed,
even by 1988, most Christian schools had disproportionately white
populations.427 The reason for such, as Nancy Ammerman suggests, is
that, “there is often an implicit, if not explicit, assumption that many black
students are simply unwilling or unable to live by their [conservative
Christian] standards.”428 And as Susan Rose, of the Fundamentalist Project
points out, there is still commitment by many fundamentalists today, if not
to segregation, at least to separation.429
In June 2002, the Civil Rights Project at Harvard University released
data confirming the continuation of this trend. It found that today, private
religious schools have the highest levels of segregation over both private
secular schools and public schools, with Catholic the most segregated of
religious schools.430
The Social Implications of Armageddon 123
Best known for its separatist racist policies is the conservative Bob
Jones University (BJU), which lost its tax-exempt status in 1982 for its
policy of banning interracial dating and marriage. BJU’s attorney argued
before the Supreme Court insisting that as an exclusively religious
organization, it qualifies for tax-exempt status regardless of its racist policy,
because the policy is based on religious belief. Evangelicals joined forces
in speaking out on behalf of BJU. Nonetheless, BJU lost the case and
continued running without tax-exemption. The school maintained its belief
that “God intends the races to be separate.”431 The ban on interracial dating
finally was lifted in 2000 following a wave of media attention to BJU’s
practice.432 While today, many BJU faculty and students deny the policy
was racist, the meaning behind the policy is undeniable when looking at its
founder.
Bob Jones, Sr., who was a fundamentalist preacher “was a Ku Klux
Klan mouthpiece who preached against Catholics and foreigners . . .”433
Jones, Sr. once clamored, “I would rather see a saloon on every corner than
a Catholic in the White House. I would rather see a nigger as president.”434
More recently, Bob Jones III rationalized in reference to the Curse of
Ham:
(A) Negro is best when he serves at the table. When he does that,
he's doing what he knows how to do best. And the Negroes who
have ascended to positions in government, in education, this sort
of thing, I think you'll find, by and large, have a strong strain of
white blood in them. Now, I'm not a racist and this school is not a
racist institution. I can't stress that enough. But what I say is purely
what I have been taught, and what I have been able to study is the
teaching of the Scripture.435
James A. Landrith, Jr. of The Multiracial Activist, applied to BJU in
1998. He received a letter from BJU informing him of the university’s ban
on interracial dating. Since Landrith is interracially married, only he or his
wife could be students at BJU, but not both of them.436 Later, BJU’s
community relations coordinator, Jonathon Paite, wrote to Landrith:
God has separated people for His own purpose. He has erected
barriers between the nations, not only land and sea barriers, but
also ethnic, cultural, and language barriers. God has made people
different one from another and intends those differences to
remain. Bob Jones University is opposed to intermarriage of the
races because it breaks down the barriers God has established. It
124 The Fundamentals of Extremism
mixes that which God separated and intends to keep separate.
Every effort in world history to bring the world together has
demonstrated man's self-reliance and his unwillingness to remain
as God ordains. The attempts at one-worldism have been to
devise a system without God and have fostered the promotion of a
unity designed to give the world strength so that God is not
needed and can be overthrown.437
Interestingly, BJU, from which Attorney General John Ashcroft
received an honorary doctorate and delivered his acceptance speech in
May 1999, is a favorite among Christian conservatives. Moreover, many
conservative politicians have campaigned at BJU. This includes
Republican Senator Strom Thurmond and former Republican Vice
President Dan Quayle, who appeared with President George W. Bush.
Many politicians have also graduated from or hold honorary degrees from
the university.438
The issue of racial discrimination by fundamentalists is far from
limited to academic institutions. According to a year-2000 survey, those
who take the Bible literally and view it as the actual word of God, are three
times as likely to favor laws against interracial marriage as those who do
not take the Bible literally. They are twice as likely to not vote for a black
candidate for president, even if their own political party nominated the
candidate.439
More telling, in February 2001, ten African-American employees filed
suit against the Christian Coalition; the charges were of discrimination. It
was alleged that the blacks were barred from using the front door and must
eat in segregated facilities at the Coalition’s Washington, D.C.
headquarters, simply because they are black.440 The Coalition also played
a role in the 2000 Florida election debacle. It sent lawyers to help avert the
correction of the myriad of problems in getting an accurate vote count.
This included the major issue of African-Americans who had been
prevented from voting at all.441
The group least tolerated both vocally and visibly today, however, is
homosexuals. In the past, fundamentalists received a great deal of support
from the more mainstream population. It has been nearly thirty years since
the American Psychiatric Association removed homosexuality from its
register of mental disorders. Still, the culture at large has only recently
begun to accept this behavior, which was traditionally considered deviant.
Most mainstream society today accepts and promotes tolerance and
equality for gays and lesbians. But, those who continue to speak
venomously regarding homosexuality generally do so from a selective
The Social Implications of Armageddon 125
literal and inerrant interpretation of the Bible. They use Christian doctrine
to support their contempt.
To fundamentalists, the possibility of gay marriage is extremely
threatening to the envisioned American family. This is regardless of the
fact the American Academy of Pediatrics’ recently reported that children
raised by gays and lesbians are no more likely to be maladjusted than their
heterosexually parented peers.442 Even so, gays and lesbians are the target
of much criticism and attempts at conversion or correction. It matters not
whether the homosexuals are actually attempting to create a family.
Gays and lesbians often suffer from family rejection and verbal abuse.
Similar to the discrimination once endured by African-Americans (that is
to a disturbingly large degree still experienced today), homosexuals suffer
from housing and job discrimination, to threats, and, occasionally, actual
violence.443 Unfortunately, gays have more difficulty protecting
themselves from discriminatory practices today because in many states
there are few laws to protect them.
Legislation has been proposed to protect the rights of homosexuals,
and there have been some successes. Still, most bills see strong opposition
from fundamentalists, many within the political system, and the bills are
therefore, unable to muster enough support. As an example, Attorney
General John Ashcroft, while serving in the Senate, opposed a bill aimed at
stopping employment discrimination of gays and lesbians. He insisted
homosexuality is a choice that can be changed and that such a bill would
send the wrong message to the youth in America.444 The legislation failed
to pass the conservative-controlled Senate by a single vote.445
Del Stover, editor of Urban Advocate, the newsletter of the National
School Boards Association, describes the tragedy of the fundamentalist
view on homosexuals. Gay and lesbian students feel alienated in a society
that treats homosexuality as a plague. Parents of one child threatened: “If I
thought you were gay, I’d smother you with a pillow.”446 Anyone growing
up in fear of being disowned, ostracized, or killed for something they
cannot change about themselves is likely to grow up with emotional
problems.
Suicide is an all too common response to the emotional impact of
fundamentalist attitudes toward homosexuality. It is estimated that thirty
percent of teen suicides are by gay, lesbian, bisexual, or transsexual
youth.447 Yet, only an estimated four to ten percent of the population is
homosexual. Although the American Academy of Pediatrics, the National
Education Association, and the Child Welfare League of America are
unanimous on the need for more services helping gay youth, Stover
indicates that such relief for a gay teenager is not likely to happen. The
126 The Fundamentals of Extremism
battles imposed on school districts by religious conservatives in regards to
intervention for gay students and opposition to sex education in general,
make this a no-win situation.448 Unfortunately, members of this at-risk
population rarely receive intervention. This is because some religious
conservatives protest so fiercely against anything possibly giving an
appearance of accepting homosexuality, which they “decry . . . an
abomination. . . .”449
When gays and lesbians force themselves to conform by marrying
traditionally, their families can suffer greatly from the eventual revelations
of their true orientation. Stanton L. Jones wrote in an article appearing in
Christianity Today about a gay friend, Peter, who married a woman. Peter
tried, unsuccessfully, to repress his urges for fifteen years. During his
marriage, he had affairs with other men. When his wife eventually learned
of the affairs, their marriage and lives were destroyed.450 Although Peter
was finally able to have a healthy relationship with a man, his ex-wife
remained distraught from the destruction of their marriage.451 Had Peter
not been placed in a position of needing to repress his feelings, he would
never have married a woman. This would have prevented the painful and
traumatic experience.
Tragically, Matthew Shepard learned very well the pain homophobia
can cause. Shephard’s fate resulted from a society inundated by
conservative Christian opposition to and outright contempt for gays. It
came on October 12, 1998, because one of his assailants had been
embarrassed when Shepard allegedly made a pass at him in a bar. In
retaliation the assailant decided to steal Shepard’s money. But it went far
beyond robbery when Aaron McKinney and Russell Henderson brutally
beat Shepherd and then abandoned him on the side of the road, tied to a
fencepost.452 McKinney and Henderson are now serving two consecutive
life sentences each, with no possibility of parole, for Shepard’s murder.
The assailants were spared the death penalty at the behest of the slain
student’s father.453
Although highly visible, Shepard’s case is not as rare as one might
hope. In 1999, the FBI’s Uniform Crime Reporting Program recorded
1,487 offenses motivated by sexual orientation against 1,558 individuals.
Three of those resulted in death for the victim; another 180 were
aggravated assault cases, which was the original charge against Shepard’s
assailants. Amazingly enough, gays, lesbians, and bisexuals are about as
likely to be targeted for hate crimes as racial minorities, even though their
“difference” is much less visible.454
The other side of the efforts to repress homosexuality is most
dramatically illustrated by the case of Jeffrey Dahmer. The insistence that
The Social Implications of Armageddon 127
homosexuality is a disorder and a sin has taken a visible toll on society.
Convicted serial murderer Dahmer suffered from severe self-hatred
because of his own homosexuality. He was convinced by his
fundamentalist upbringing that he was at heart a sinner and that his family
would never accept him if they knew of this. Dahmer’s rage was
catastrophically turned against seventeen men and boys. He murdered and
then performed sex acts on them before mutilating their bodies.
Psychiatrist George Palermo testified in Dahmer’s trial. He said to the
Milwaukee Sentinel, “I believe Jeffrey Dahmer killed his victims because
he hated homosexuality.”455
In 1996, Henry Adams, Lester Wright Jr., and Bethany Lohr, all of the
University of Georgia, conducted an experiment. It lent credence to the
long-held hypothesis that homophobia, usually meaning a hatred of
homosexuals, rather than simply fear, may be a reaction to
unacknowledged “homosexual inclinations.” In this experiment,
heterosexual men viewed videotapes of homosexual, lesbian, and
heterosexual acts while hooked up to a penile plethysmograph.456
The men were given a questionnaire before the experiment to
determine their attitudes toward homosexuality. Those men who were
categorized as homophobic before the experiment showed sexual arousal
while viewing the homosexual videos. Those who had not been
categorized as homophobic did not. Nevertheless, when they completed a
closing questionnaire, the homophobic group denied their sexual arousal
during the homosexual video. This would indicate that homophobics are
repressing or at least unwilling to acknowledge homosexual feelings.457 It
may also suggest some turn to fundamentalism as a way of coping with
and repressing their own homosexuality.
Fortunately, attitudes are changing—although slowly. In 1984,
seventy-four percent of Americans responded that sexual relations
between adults of the same sex were “always wrong.” But by 2000, only
fifty-nine percent chose this answer.458 Still, how long and painful the
change will be is unknown. Just less than two-thirds of the population still
holds such a view. Rosie O’Donnell, who graced the cover of People
Magazine in March 2002, was hailed for her bravery in coming out of the
closet to the nation on ABC’s Primetime Thursday. Her long-standing
reputation as an adoptive mother and all-around friendly gal, makes it
difficult for fundamentalists to convince people there is something evil or
harmful about her desire to be a parent.
Many companies, including Apple Computer, Disney, and AOL Time
Warner now offer health plans including benefits for same-sex partners of
employees. But such companies have not managed these policies without
128 The Fundamentals of Extremism
censure. Disney faced a boycott from the Southern Baptist Convention
when it added domestic partnership benefits to its health plan in 1995 and
for a laundry list of other reasons. Most had to do with positive portrayals
of gays and lesbians.459 Although Disney stood its ground, it is likely that
many smaller companies have been swayed from doing so because of the
potential costs of fundamentalist actions.
In some states, despite fundamentalists’ strong opposition, there is also
a real possibility laws allowing gay marriage could pass. Unfortunately, as
a pre-emptive strike, thirty states have passed laws defining marriage as a
union between “one man and one woman.” This is an evasion of the Full
Faith and Credit clause of the U.S. Constitution.460
The religious right is fighting tooth and nail to prevent people from
socially accepting homosexuality. So, there are bound to be more Matthew
Shepards and a need for more Rosie O’Donnells. It can only be hoped it
comes more easily and more quickly, than came acceptance of African-
Americans or women as full citizens of this country. This is especially so,
since even those battles are not yet decisively won.
The fundamentalist agenda and characteristics, however, do not
support changes in public opinion. It is not surprising, then,
fundamentalism fosters prejudice of many kinds. In more recent years,
specific approaches to religiosity have been great indicators of prejudice.
Religious rigidity, and even more so, authoritarianism, have the highest
relation to prejudice.461 The relationship between prejudice and
fundamentalism echoes through all kinds of studies. Researchers James
Forest and Linda Wylie of the University of Manitoba found a high
correlation between fundamentalism and authoritarianism. It was also
found that fundamentalism was a strong predictor of racism, homophobia,
ethnocentrism, and punitiveness.462
A survey by Lee Kirkpatrick at the College of William and Mary
found prejudice toward homosexuals, women, blacks, and communists
was higher among Christian fundamentalists than orthodox Christians.463
And a 1993 review of studies on the relationship between religion and
prejudice by three sociologists464 found that nineteen out of twenty-three
studies published from 1960 and before showed that people who were
more religious were also more inclined toward prejudice. Only one of the
studies indicated religion alleviates prejudice, with three finding no
relationship either way.465
Bruce Hunsberger, a Professor of Psychology at Wilfred Laurier
University in Ontario, Canada, agrees that a large amount of research
reveals religion is related to prejudice.466 In his work with B. Altemayer,
The Social Implications of Armageddon 129
Hunsberger defined fundamentalism for purposes of studying the
relationship between the two as:
the belief that there is one set of religious teachings that clearly
contains the fundamental, basic, intrinsic, essential, inerrant truth
about humanity and deity; that this essential truth is fundamentally
opposed by forces of evil which must be vigorously fought; that
this truth must be followed today according to the fundamental,
unchangeable practices of the past; and that those who believe and
follow these fundamental teachings have a special relationship
with deity.467
Although this definition is more specific than the one presented in the
introduction of this book, it does bring home the authoritarian nature of
fundamentalist doctrine and shows how easily it fosters prejudice. As
Hunsberger puts it, “both religious fundamentalism and authoritarianism
encourage obedience to authority, conventionalism, self-righteousness, and
feelings of superiority.”468 He points out that although the studies he
reviewed have been consistent in relating religious fundamentalism to
higher rates of prejudice, there is a need for more empirical studies. What
seems to be lacking in most of the studies to date are various measures of
religiosity.469
It is also important to note that the correlation between religious
fundamentalism and prejudice does not necessarily mean fundamentalism
is the cause of prejudice. Further study is needed to determine a causal
relationship, although the possibility of such cannot easily be dismissed.470
Hunsberger concludes that religion in and of itself may not cause
prejudice. Instead it may be “the way in which religious beliefs are held,”
as in fundamentalism and right-wing authoritarianism, that creates the
association.471
It is common in religious institutions where prejudice is taught as
unacceptable that some religious individuals will indicate they are not
prejudiced on surveys or questionnaires. 472 “Since they see themselves as
religious persons,” Hunsberger explained, “they will ‘toe the party line.’”
Yet, in cases where the church does not openly oppose specific prejudice,
or even when covert measures are used, those same people, “will admit to
their discriminatory attitudes, since such prejudice is not inconsistent with
the teachings of their religious community.”473
A popular contemporary study of the New Testament makes this
tendency toward prejudice seem out of step with Christian doctrine.
However, the tendency for fundamentalists to see the world in terms of
130 The Fundamentals of Extremism
indisputable absolutes does make prejudicial attitudes easier to adopt and
keep. Furthermore, prejudice serves the role of simplifying the world, by
making decisions easier and cutting down the amount of information
needed to get through daily life. When struggling to adapt an explicit
ancient moral code to modern society, any means of reducing complexity
can be a welcome relief.
A number of scholars believe there are certain aspects of religion
typically found in fundamentalists that possibly lead to prejudice and
discrimination. These include belief in absolute truths,474 teachings of outgroups’
inferiority,475 “stimulating nationalism,”476 “encouraging
authoritarianism, ethnocentrism, and in-group out-group stereotyping,”477
the fostering of dogmatism and opinionation,478 and “emphasizing the
importance of submission to authority.”479
Although even mainstream religions may incorporate some of these
elements to a mild degree, fundamentalist faith is very dependent on most,
if not all of the above characteristics. This makes its adherents far more
susceptible to prejudicial ideas. Mark Nathan Cohen, Distinguished
Teaching Professor at the State University of New York at Plattsburgh,
explained, “Intolerance grows out of the need to find scapegoats.” Because
no system is perfect, yet culture requires an undying faith in its rules,
people within the system seek out reasons for failures of the system. Blame
must be placed somewhere outside the system to elevate or at least
maintain faith in the culture. One of the most basic needs religion
addresses is the need for explanation and understanding; blame is often an
integral part of this. 480
Fundamentalists target women, homosexuals, Jews, atheists, African
Americans, and a host of other groups when confronted with imperfections
within our culture. “Scapegoats,” Cohen explained, “are safety valves for
the cultural system against the pressure of disappointment.” Leaders are
especially likely to point blame at outsiders to avoid discontent among
members. This also can “justify their own initiatives.”481
Therefore, as America becomes more global and inclusive,
conservative elements tend to be more insular and exclusive. Religion has
always played a major role in defining groups. Cohen explained that
intolerance and racism do not result from the visible and biological
differences of a group, nor “cultural inadequacy.” Rather, such feelings
stem from misunderstanding and misinterpreting other groups when these
populations live together.482 Cohen says:
We fail to recognize that most problems can be approached in
more than one way. People on all sides are unable to recognize
The Social Implications of Armageddon 131
what is arbitrary and conventional in their own behaviors and
beliefs. Cultures not only blind their members to alternatives but
also actively foster chauvinism and intolerance as a way of
reinforcing group identity.483
Intolerance grows as leaders discourage any efforts for groups to
intermingle484 and come to terms with each other’s differences, which
ultimately stems from the leader self-interests. This is revealed in the
practice at Bob Jones University and the Christian Coalition’s
Headquarters.
Legitimizing extremism
When extremist viewpoints are given validity by society at-large, it
becomes difficult to determine what is taking things “too far.” This may
have the affect of making people think their beliefs can justify any number
of antisocial actions, such as those stemming from prejudices. It may also
make some people more susceptible to forming or recruitment into a more
extreme sect or cult. To appreciate this likelihood and the effects, a basic
understanding of the differences between churches, sects, and cults, and
how religious groups change, is necessary.
Denominations, or churches, are to what mainstream Christians
belong. Denominations are generally accepting of other religious beliefs
and comfortable with society.485 They generally favor an intellectual
approach to religious teachings, while avoiding emotionalism in their
services. Churches are attended more by the middle and upper classes, and
members tend to participate from the sidelines by acting mainly as an
audience.486
In contrast, sects are often to what Christian fundamentalists belong.
Sects are deviant religious groups holding traditional beliefs. They claim to
be the only true believers,487 or true Christians, and satisfy the masses, or
those who are low in the stratification system.488 Sects stress
“emotionalism and individual mystical experiences.” Members actively
participate in the religious experience, which offers them “a strong sense of
community and solidarity.”489
It must be pointed, however, that there is overlap, just as with many
other issues pertaining to fundamentalism. So, whether fundamentalists are
part of a sect or denomination is not always cut and dry. Many
fundamentalists are also Southern Baptists, which is considered a
conservative denomination rather than a sect. But the reason for this
132 The Fundamentals of Extremism
situation can be more readily understood by looking at the church-sect
theory.
In an increasingly secular world, it is difficult to understand how and
why there is, at the same time, a rapid growth in sects. The church-sect
theory, derived from Ernst Troeltsch and developed by H. Richard
Niebuhr, helps to explain this phenomenon.490 As has been historically the
case, sects and churches change over time. In his book The Social Sources
of Denominations (1929), Niebhur said the growth of religious
organizations leads to increased memberships in the middle and upper
classes. Over time, these classes influence the organization to take a more
worldly approach in which material success is no longer considered a
punishable offense to God. In turn, the religious needs of the lower classes
are no longer met. As discontent grows, the masses break off from the lessspiritual
church to form a sect to satisfy their needs, as did the former
organization, originally. The cycle then repeats itself.491
Similar discontent was observed in recent years in the Southern
Baptist Convention, resulting in a major division. In this instance, a sect
was not formed because the massive ultra-conservative membership of the
SBC was able to maintain control over the denomination, forcing out the
more liberal of its membership. Therefore, the needs of its conservative
and fundamentalist adherents were able to be maintained by the
denomination.
While sects are simply new organizations attempting to revive old
religion, cults, on the other hand, are movements that either are altogether
new or are different from traditional religious organizations. After many
cycles of the church-sect process, a religious tradition loses its ability to
satisfy a large segment of the population. Thus, secularization also gives
rise to cults. The term “cults” has come to have negative connotations
because of the tensions “between these movements and their social
environment.”492
All religions, including Christianity, begin as cults,493 most of which
are benign. In contrast to sects, cults emphasize converting individuals
rather than attempting to change society.494 Nevertheless, cults tend to
assault the value of individuality and place heavy emphasis on group
conformity from dress and lifestyle to thoughts and even sex patterns.
Therefore, some can become very damaging to their members.495
Cult researchers Flo Conway and Jim Siegelman did a study in 1980
on cult rituals and their long-term effects. Out of forty-eight cult groups
studied, more than thirty “had emerged out of fundamentalist or other
branches of conservative Christianity.” The long-term effects of these cultlike
sects ranged from depression, suicide, and fear, to amnesia and
The Social Implications of Armageddon 133
hallucinations, to name just a few.496 Furthermore, Conway and Siegelman
found “these thirty Christian sects combined ranked higher than the most
destructive cults . . . studied in terms of the trauma they inflicted upon their
members.”497
Typically, even among “more legalistic churches,” members of
Christian-based cult-like sects are taught that the Bible has all of the
answers to life’s questions. “Specific verses are invoked to address the
most complex issues of human existence. The verses are then quoted
whenever members are faced with uncertainty in their lives,” explains
Doni P. Whitsett, in “A Self Psychological Approach to the Cult
Phenomenon,” in Clinical Social Work Journal. “Thus, individual thinking
and talking is replaced by ‘group-think’ and ‘group-talk.’”498
According to Whitsett, it has been estimated that between:
two to three million Americans have been involved in
approximately 3,000 cults (West and Singer, 1980). The figure
becomes astronomical when family members and friends who
have been affected are considered. Additionally, numerous other
people seen in clinical practice exhibit symptomatology and
emotional states associated with cults.499
Regardless, little attention has been given to this widespread problem by
the mental health field.500
There are several common characteristics of cults, points out
sociologist Donald C. Swift. They generally have charismatic leaders,
questionable recruitment practices, “fanatical loyalty and obedience,” and
surrender of assets and income to the leaders.501
Johan D. Van der Vyver, former Professor of Human Rights Law at
the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg, South Africa offers
further explanation. Many cults and self-professed evangelists use religion
as a ploy, he says. They “exploit the miseries of persons in need, through
illness or poverty, in order to secure their subservience.”502 The television
pleas of icons such as Billy Graham show fundamentalism bears
relationship to cults in some of these characteristics as well. These
televangelists exploit their viewers, whom the televangelists are most
certainly aware, cannot afford the donations they are called on and easily
persuaded to make.
The line between sects and cults certainly becomes blurred when
looking at the International Churches of Christ formerly known as Church
of Christ/Boston Movement or Church of Christ/Crossroads Movement.
Some call it a fundamentalist church; those with personal experience call it
134 The Fundamentals of Extremism
a cult. While the Church of Christ’s beliefs are not out of the ordinary for a
fundamentalist group, its method of operation is very aggressive. New
recruits are assigned a “discipler,” an older member who mentors them503
and makes sure that new recruits go to Bible studies, barbecues, and other
events. New members are strongly discouraged from keeping ties with
family members and friends who are not in the church. When operating on
college campuses, members are often expected to live in the church co-op
or with other church members. The entire organization is extremely
insular, with the exception of their recruitment. Former members tell of
sneaking out in the middle of the night, leaving all their personal
possessions behind, to escape.504
Cult experts have found people in transitional phases or experiencing a
life crisis are more susceptible to recruitment.505 Therefore, college
students are an appealing target. Another example of fundamentalist cultlike
practices and their effects are described by Whitsett, in the case of a
twenty-one year old referenced as “C.” C grew up in a fundamentalist
church that taught Biblical literalism and that all answers, regardless of the
question, could be found in the Bible. As a result, “C. never learned to
think for herself.” C’s mother always responded to C’s questions in the
same manner, resulting in the failed emotional connection needed for
healthy development.506 Moreover, the church group’s “strong
prohibitions against any sexual activity, against masturbation, against
homosexuality . . . against anger” resulted in obsessive thoughts for C. This
led her to perceive of herself as being “of the devil.” Treatment for C.,
including psychotropic drugs, was ineffective in eliminating her obsessions
and suicidal thoughts. Eventually, she became hospitalized.507
C’s story is not unusual. Whitsett discovered “that a disproportionate
number of young adults aged (19-21) within this church community had
made serious suicide attempts and some had succeeded.” In one case, the
church was sued when parents learned that the church had discouraged
their son, who was depressed, from seeking professional help. According
to C., suicide was considered a “viable alternative” to those in the church
who were unable to “live according to God’s teachings. . . .”508
Other fundamentalist groups also use cult-like methods in recruiting or
at least in maintaining their memberships. Kris, whose name has been
changed to respect her anonymity, shared stories from one evangelical
Lutheran church that her family had attended regularly in a small town in
Michigan. Over time Kris observed what she increasingly found to be
outlandish beliefs, and eventually, her family quit attending the services.
Several months later they received a guilt-inducing letter that was riddled
with threats of eternal punishment.
The Social Implications of Armageddon 135
The letter admonished: “He [the rich man] was always too busy to
hear God’s Word. . . . How sad that his laxness in and towards ‘the one
thing needful’ cost him an eternity of pain and suffering in hell.” The
missive continued:
TODAY, while you still have time, the Lord calls you to sincere
repentance—to do a U-turn, an about face, and to turn from your
sin of worshiping created things and to come back to your Savior,
His Word and Sacrament which alone can save your soul. . . . It’s
pretty foolish, pretty sad when anyone for any reason neglects
their soul salvation. . . . but turn from your evil ways to Him who
alone can forgive sins; . . . Otherwise, like the poor “rich(?)” man
you too shall perish.
The letter, dated 1997, closes by threatening that if the couple does not
“have a change of heart concerning this sin,” their names will be brought
before the church’s Voter’s assembly. The Board of Elders will then
recommend that the couple “be put out of the communicant membership
for living in the unrepentant sin of idolatry.” It is signed, “Sent out of
Christian love.”
Fortunately, this couple was not brainwashed enough during their
attendance to heed the churches call. In fact, because the church failed in its
attempts to brainwash, it was the final straw in the couple deciding not to
return. Nonetheless, it can only be assumed that some members would
take such a letter wholeheartedly, hastening a return to the church for
further inducement.
The effect fundamentalism has on legitimizing extremism
undoubtedly helps cults and other radical movements in their efforts, by
obscuring the line where religion becomes fanaticism. The emphasis
fundamentalist sects place on the “End Times” may also ease the path of
doomsday cults. The thirty-nine Heaven’s Gate members who committed
mass suicide in March of 1997 are a good example. So is the Branch
Davidians, whose fifty-one day standoff with the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco and Firearms dominated the headlines of mid-1993.
The First Amendment’s guarantee of religious freedom cannot and
should not be curtailed simply because something is considered “extreme.”
Nevertheless, as with all rights, this right must go hand-in-hand with
responsibility for actions affecting others.
136 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Crime: morality and reality
Most Americans, Christian or otherwise, see fundamentalist
philosophy as extreme. Still, it is difficult for many to perceive it as truly
dangerous or criminal. This is especially so in light of the fact that the
Christian Right attempts to endorse its beliefs and practices through
proposed laws that it claims are necessary to reduce crime and violence in
an anti-religious, immoral society. Christian fundamentalists commonly
propose laws to reduce teen violence, drug use, child and spousal abuse,
property crime, murder, and more. But contrary to Christian Right claims,
the fundamentalist proposals often do nothing to alleviate such problems
and may even aggravate criminal behavior. Yet, it is not simply their
methods of dealing with social problems that make fundamentalists
dangerous. Many fundamentalists are perpetrators of a wide variety of
crimes and violent acts.
To begin, if fundamentalist activities were consistent with their goals,
it would be expected that violent crime would be lower in areas with
higher fundamentalist concentrations. But generally speaking, the opposite
is the case. When reviewing available data, six of the states with the
highest violent crime rates also fall into the highest bracket for
fundamentalist believers. At the same time, seven of the states with the
lowest fundamentalist church membership rest in the bottom third for
crime rate. 509 Overall, violent crime is far more influenced by urbanization
than by religion; New York, California, and Illinois contain the three
largest cities in the nation, and all have relatively high crime rates. They
occupy tenth, eleventh, and seventh places respectively, so urbanization is
not a complete predictor of violent crime.
Although the U.S. “is the most religious of all industrialized nations” it
has a murder rate five times that of Sweden, six times that of Britain, and
seven times the murder rate of France. Japan, perhaps the most urbanized
country of all, has the lowest violent crime rate of almost any country—
and few Christians. In Louisiana, the churchgoing rate is the highest in the
country, yet it has a murder rate greater than twice the national average.510
Even if there were a stronger correlation between religion and high
crime rates, these figures would not necessarily mean fundamentalists
cause crime. It is just as possible a high crime rate or a tendency toward
criminal behavior makes people more likely to adopt fundamentalist
beliefs. It is also possible that ineffective and even counterproductive laws,
as typically proposed by the Christian Right, in areas with heavy
concentrations of fundamentalists, contribute to the violent crime rate.
What these patterns do show, however, is that if fundamentalist activity
The Social Implications of Armageddon 137
has any effect on the prevalence of violent crime, it is more likely to
increase rather than reduce it.
One of the problems of fundamentalism in relation to crime is, as
criminologists D. Stanley Eitzen and Doug A. Timmer in Criminology:
Crime and Criminal Justice point out:
contemporary conservatives like those conservatives before them
who ‘have successfully posed as the guardians of domestic
tranquility for decades’ typically promote social and economic
policies ‘that bear a large part of the responsibility for the level of
crime and violence we suffer today.’511
This can easily be understood by looking at the effect legalized
abortion has had on violent crime. John J. Donohue III, Professor of Law
and Academic Associate Dean for Research at Stanford University, and
Steven D. Levitt, economics professor at the University of Chicago,
explained this. They found in their analysis of crime trends in various
geographical areas that about half of the dramatic drop-off in crime rate
during the 1990s can be logically attributed to the legalization of abortion
in the 1970s.512 The idea that fewer unwanted children and fewer
unwilling mothers reduce the crime rate is not counterintuitive to most
Americans. Yet, it is close to heresy to fundamentalist Christians. If their
findings are correct, the success of fundamentalist efforts at reducing the
availability of abortion could change the violent crime map a great deal in
the future.
Fundamentalist attempts to make undesirable elements such as
pornography, a scapegoat for violent crime, may be another reason
fundamentalism has failed in making the world a safer place. Beyond just
ignoring solid data to the contrary, groups opposing pornography may
occasionally fabricate evidence in their favor. This was apparently the case
with a supposed Michigan State Police study. This study, allegedly
conducted in the 1980s, has been cited repeatedly by pornography
opponents. Gael Parr, the acquisitions librarian for the J.V. Barry Library
in Australia requested a copy of the report for its records.
Detective Sergeant David Minzey informed Parr, “the truth is that no
such study was ever conducted.” Then Minzey attempted to replicate the
study using the department’s extensive database on more than 75,000 sex
offenses reported from 1955 to the present. But he was unable to support
the original claim. No more than a weak correlation between pornography
and sexual assault was found. This could have simply meant the
perpetrators of sexual crimes have a stronger tendency to view
138 The Fundamentals of Extremism
pornography. Other factors, such as use of alcohol, showed a much
stronger correlation to sex crimes.513
What have also been found to have a strong correlation to these crimes
are beliefs and practices typical of fundamentalists. According to Dennis
Coon in Introduction to Psychology: Exploration and Application, sex role
socialization likely plays a role in the perpetuation of rape. Many people
believe women should not display sexual interest, and men are taught to
take the lead in sexual intimacy. Therefore, “even when the woman says
no,” rape is often the result.514 Misogyny, hatred of women, is another
cause of rape. Many rapists have been found to “harbor deep-seated
resentment or outright hatred of women.” Sexual intercourse, it is widely
believed, is not typically the main goal of the rapist. Rather, it is a desire to
humiliate, degrade, subordinate, and even injure a woman.515
Fundamentalists continue to oppose equality between the sexes and to
reinforce sex roles. This makes rape for any reason more likely. In fact, the
church’s interpretation of the crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus Christ
can play into rapists’ hands. According to Christine E. Gudorf, Professor of
Theology at Xavier University in Cincinnati, Christians often tell sexual
violence victims “that it is good to suffer” and through such that they will
“earn God’s special favor.”516 Victims of sexual violence are often told by
Christians the violation occurred out of God’s will, they will soon forget
the incident, and to just go on with life, or worse, to forgive an unrepentant
offender.517
Holding such views may perpetuate rape as the perpetrators realize
there will be no repercussion for their actions. They may even use these
views to justify their violent acts. More telling, it has been reported that
nearly thirty percent of all nuns have experienced “sexual trauma” from
within the church, according to Catholic researchers. Southern Baptists
have also found “14.1 percent of their clergy have sexually abused
members.”518
Other criminal behavior that has a strong relationship to
fundamentalism has been discussed in other chapters. There is a high
relationship between spousal abuse and fundamentalist views on a
woman’s role. It has also been found that child abuse is more typical in
fundamentalist homes where parents adhere to a “spare the rod, spoil the
child” mentality, as discussed in chapter 3. Studies have found incest rates
to be higher among fundamentalist fathers. As has been seen for years, in a
report by Reverend Tom Economus, it is estimated between 6.1 percent
and 16.3 percent of priests are pedophiles.519
Exhibitionism, a prevalent form of sexual deviancy, also appears to be
related to fundamentalism. Common characteristics of exhibitionists are
The Social Implications of Armageddon 139
that they are male, married, and “most come from strict and repressive
backgrounds.”520 Such backgrounds are commonly found in
fundamentalist households.
There also seems to be a possible link between fundamentalism, or the
fundamentalist religious upbringing, and mass murder or serial killing.
This trend was found by Paul O’Brien during 1980 and 1981. He
conducted a study spurred after his friend, a schoolteacher, murdered the
man’s own family. According to O’Brien, the teacher became very
religious and started carrying a Bible. Less than a year later, the teacher
murdered his own wife and three children. On a tape that he made before
his death in the Arizona gas chambers, the inmate remarked, “My wife and
children are now in heaven. I’m happy to join them now.”521
In an attempt to understand his friend’s shocking action, O’Brien
clipped every article pertaining to mass murder or serial killing appearing
in the Flint Journal for an eighteen-month period. Out of twelve mass
murderers and serial killers, O’Brien found the common link among
eleven was either a very religious upbringing or belief in demons and
devils. “Most carried a Christian Bible with them at all times,”522 says
O’Brien.
Some of the stories O’Brien studied included Sampson Kanderayi, a
Christian known as the Ax Killer. He murdered more than thirty people “to
appease evil spirits.” Another man by the name of Douglas went on a
search to find a woman home alone. When one was found, he stabbed her
to death. Douglas, reportedly, was a frequent Bible reader and believed he
had received a message from God to do the killing.523
The teenager David Kellers murdered his parents with a shotgun,
according to the Flint Journal. Says O’Brien, “David’s whole life revolved
around church and religion.”524 Patricia Dueweke dropped her three
children off a hotel balcony. She had extensive religious training and had
gone to a Catholic convent to be a nun.525 Curtis Martin took his three
children to a factory and put them in a steel melting pot. He turned it on
and walked out reading the Bible aloud as his children “turned into charred
ash.”526
It should be noted that there has been much controversy surrounding
criminal profiling, and it has not been found overly effective in catching
criminals. Nonetheless, the religious commonality found in so many mass
and serial killings cannot be denied. An abusive and repressive upbringing
may not be a direct or sole cause for violent behavior, since many abused
children do not grow up to commit murder. Still, such an upbringing does
appear to play at least some role.
According to the article, “What Makes Serial Killers Tick?”
140 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Some parents believed that by being harsh disciplinarians, it
would "toughen" the child. Instead, it often creates a lack of love
between parent and child that can have disastrous results. If the
child doesn't bond with its primary caretakers, there is no
foundation for trusting others later in life. This can lead to
isolation, where intense violent fantasies become the primary
source of gratification.527
This parenting style is common in fundamentalist homes where parents are
often authoritarian and punitive in nature. They see their child’s immature
or unruly behavior as inherently evil and in need of being broken.
A 1995 study by David Lester, a world-renowned authority on
murder, as well as a 1992 study by M.H. Medoff and I. Lee Skov, “found
that fundamentalism has not been successful in reducing murder.”
Moreover, these criminologists concluded that fundamentalism may be a
cause of murder, because of the oppressiveness of fundamentalists’ strict
moral code. They believe that fundamentalists “may be unable to conform
. . . and suffer emotionally and spiritually with adverse consequences.”528 It
has also been concluded, write Michael Franklin and Marian Hetherly, that
“‘evil imagination’—which includes diverse forms of hostility, hatred, and
violence—is a response to the anxiety and fear associated with
powerlessness, and absolute dependence on faith.”529
Also telling of religion’s failure to prevent crime is an increasingly
familiar pattern. This is recorded in the Annual Statistical Table on Global
Mission, compiled by research Professor of Missiometrics David B.
Barrett at Regent University. Ecclesiastical-related crime, or crime in
religious institutions, has grown from $300,000 annually a century ago to
$3 billion by 1990. It is estimated the year 2024 will bring $65 billion in
ecclesiastical crime.530
Whether or not such crimes are committed mostly by fundamentalist
ministers, it contradicts fundamentalist beliefs and their insistence that
religion is a deterrent to crime. One example is of Robert R. Courtney, a
deacon in an Assemblies of God church where his father had formerly
ministered. Courtney was accused of diluting over a hundred doses of
chemotherapy drugs to help pay off his $600,000 federal income tax bill
and his $330,000 pledge to the church in which he was raised.531
Courtney’s father, now retired from the ministry, had been working as
Courtney’s bookkeeper during the time of this fraud. He describes
Courtney as, “an ideal son in every sense of the word.” Courtney was
The Social Implications of Armageddon 141
jailed without bond, charged with at least twenty counts of felony drug
tampering.532
In 1991 an illuminating study was reported. According to a Roper
survey, born-again Christians deteriorated in their behavior following
conversion. Respondents had gone from only four percent driving while
intoxicated before conversion to twelve percent doing so afterward. Illegal
drugs were used by only five percent beforehand, but after being bornagain,
the number rose to nine percent. And illicit sex increased from two
percent before conversion to five percent following.533
For the reasons just discussed, the Christian Right’s pursuit to post the
Ten Commandments in courtrooms and public schools to alleviate crime
and create a more moral society meets serious objections. Martin E. Marty
of the Fundamentalism Project and the Fairfax M. Cone Distinguished
Service Professor of the History of Modern Christianity at the University
of Chicago makes a more needed suggestion. He says, instead, maybe the
Commandments should to be hung in church sanctuaries.534
Militancy to terrorism: morality goes to war
Contrary to what much of mainstream society may believe,
fundamentalism is not receding. In some sects it is becoming increasingly
militant, according to Karen Armstrong who teaches for the Study of
Judaism at Leo Baeck College. She is one of the foremost commentators
on religious affairs in the United States and Great Britain.535
Most fundamentalists do not want violence. Still, there is a problem
with the fundamentalist relationship to it. This is because, according to
Charles B. Strozier, the more extreme tend to take on the responsibility of
punishing sinners.536 And while fundamentalists seem to have a “halfwish”
for destruction, they are generally quick to back off once they have
expressed the desire.537
But beyond the types of violent crimes already discussed, some
fundamentalists are known for their terrorist acts and violence. Reverend
Lester and others are looking forward to “nuclear war to hasten the return
of Jesus.” He has confided, “I’m kinda looking forward to all this stuff
[nuclear destruction], to the whole thing because once the rapture takes
place the church is glorified.”538 While only a small fraction of
fundamentalists is so extreme, the number holding such attitudes is
undoubtedly significant. When fundamentalists turn to militancy, and even
violence, they risk the support of many adherents or potential supporters of
the movement. Still, there are those who are willing “to suspend the ethical
norms of the religious tradition for the sake of the religious tradition.”539
142 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Fundamentalists can be overtaken by ideology and politics. This makes it
difficult, if not impossible, to draw obvious lines between different forms
of fundamentalism. Separatists, or those who practice separation from
society, can easily become political activists540 or even gun-toting
militants.
While not strictly a Christian fundamentalist practice, the militia
movements developing in every state around the country have a strong
relationship to Christian fundamentalism. It is estimated that 400 militiatype
groups are in the U.S., most of which are Christian based. Christian
Identity followers are at the forefront of the militia movement, numbering
in the area of 40,000.541 However, there are many other Christian militia
groups, as well as Christian movements with connections to militias.
Behind the militia movement is the view, like that held by Christian
Identity followers, that there is a conspiracy regarding a New World Order
and it is the intent of the United Nations to take over the world. This theory
is not owned by Identity proponents alone. Pat Robertson sold 500,000
copies of his book The New World Order in 1991. It introduced
“mainstream evangelical and Pentecostal Christians” to these extreme
ideas.542 There is also the fundamentalist “idea that certain Americans
have a greater claim on the country's traditions and rights than others.” This
is attractive during times “of uncertainty, when people fear that ‘our’
society is under attack.”543
Following the collapse of the Soviet Union, militias and the Christian
Right expanded, Kenneth Stern wrote in A Force Upon the Plain: The
American Militia Movement and the Politics of Hate. He explained:
Our old, comfortable ‘evil empire’ upon which we could project
our worst fears, no longer exists. For those who believe in
Christian supremacy and those who believe in white supremacy,
the enemy has become internal: the United States government.
This shared new enemy has helped create ideological images
which empowers both the Religious Right and the far right.544
The Christian militia movement justifies its warmongering the same
way fundamentalists justify all of their beliefs, by referring to the Bible.
The Field Manual of the Free Militia attempts to prove the inerrancy of the
Bible. It is then used to support the militia’s claim that Christians have not
only been authorized by Jesus to arm themselves, but that arming
themselves is a Christian’s duty.545
In his article, “What Does the Bible Say About Gun Control?”
Christian Reconstructionist and Executive Director of Gun Owners of
The Social Implications of Armageddon 143
America, Larry Pratt, made this clear. He argued: “Both the Old and New
Testaments teach individual self-defense, even if it means taking the
assailant’s life in certain circumstances.”546 Interestingly, Pratt was
formerly an aide to Pat Buchanan. But Pratt’s views on gun control go
beyond simply a need or desire for self-defense. He declared:
In Matthew: 15 (and in Mark” 7), Christ accused the religious
leaders of the day of also opposing the execution of those
deserving of death—rebellious teenagers. They had replaced the
commandments of God with their own traditions. God has never
been interested in controlling the means of violence. He has
always made it a point to punish and, where possible, restore (as
with restitution and excommunication) the wrongdoer. Control of
individuals is to be left to self-government. Punishment of
individuals by the civil government is to be carried out when selfgovernment
breaks down.547
Apparently, what Pratt promotes is the self-government that Christian
Reconstructionists desire. With this, incorrigible children are punished by
death at the hands of the “self-government” who determine, at will, what
constitutes “rebelliousness.”
Moreover, Pratt complains: “Man’s wisdom today has been to declare
gun-free school zones, which are invaded by gun-toting teenage terrorists
whom we refuse to execute. We seem to have learned little from Christ’s
rebuke of the Pharisees.”548 Does Pratt propose then that school zones
should not be declared gun-free? More telling of the lack of concern
extreme fundamentalists have for the welfare of children, Pratt concludes:
“Surely in protecting against accidents we cannot end up making ourselves
more vulnerable to criminal attack, which is what a trigger lock does if it is
in use on the firearm intended for self-protection.”549
The magnitude of the problem of Christian militancy is visible in
many ways. United Patriot Radio (UPR) is an illegal (unlicensed) station
run by militiaman and Christian Identity follower Steve Anderson, out of
Tennessee. It broadcasts militia-related news and advocates “resistance to
further encroachment by the Federal government on the lives of America’s
citizenry.” UPR is “on the air more than twelve hours at a time.” During
Anderson’s personal program, “The Militia Hour,” he “advocates a
Christian-only philosophy of what America should be.” At the same time,
he denounces those of minority religions and preaches that those who do
not wish to convert to his brand of Christianity should leave the country.550
144 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Troublingly, some Christian fundamentalist summer camps for
children seem fronted to look like weeklong recreational outings. Yet,
upon close examination, they have a strong military-style bent. One such
camp is Camp Peniel in Marble Falls, Texas. Like many summer camps, it
offers a wide variety of fun activities from volleyball and softball, to arts
and crafts. There is no doubt children attending the camp have a blast. But,
it chillingly has the semblance of a youth military training ground, though
it may not be the camp founders’ and directors’ intent.
At the camp, boys become “braves,” typically meaning “warriors,” in
its Tehas Indian Tribe; girls take on the label of property by becoming
“Kings’ Daughters.”551 Referring to the children, Camp Peniel asserts,
“Jesus took the disciples away from their homes.”552 Contrary to what
most parents would hope from a summer camp, Camp Peniel claims that
from the experience, along with bonds of trust that develop, so does
“dependence,” rather than independence.553
Military jargon abounds, as the day’s agenda begins with a “reveille.”
This is defined in the dictionary as a bugle call to signal the first military
formation of the day. Twice daily, children go to a “canteen” for
refreshments. In addition, they enjoy a suppertime “retreat”554 following
their afternoon of vigorous activity. Camp activities include skeet shooting,
archery, survival, and riflery.555 There are other “Scary activities, like
rappelling down a cliff, tubing behind a speed boat, dropping from a swing
into a cold river, [that is] tried—and mastered.”556 There is also rock
climbing, canoeing, and white-water rafting.557 The site’s picture gallery
sports snapshots of Christian campers following what was apparently a
mudding adventure, with their bodies, hair, and faces plastered and painted
in mud ,558 resembling camouflage.
The intent of the military focus could be innocent enough. But the
strong emphasis on such and the glorification of it likely creates a comfort
zone and appeal for the military lifestyle. This, combined with other
characteristics of fundamentalism, may ultimately induce fundamentalists
into militia-style Christian groups.
One of the biggest problems related to militant Christian
fundamentalists is that many believe they are above the law. The Supreme
Court has upheld a ban on demonstrations within fifteen feet of abortion
clinics. However, according to a 1997 report in Christianity Today,
President of Operation Rescue Flip Benham insisted, “It has no effect,
because the Supreme Court is not supreme.”559 Operation Rescue is
known for its ties to militia groups, and the lines between anti-choice
organizations and militia movements have become increasingly blurred.560
The Social Implications of Armageddon 145
Reverend Matthew Trewhella, leader of Missionaries to the Preborn
spoke at the Wisconsin convention of the U.S. Taxpayers Party in 1994.561
He urged, “churches can form militia days and teach their men to fight.”
Classes were also held in Trewhella’s own church on "the use of
firearms."562 On the video of his speech released by Planned Parenthood
Federation of America, he was captured recommending that parents buy
“each of your children an SKS rifle and 500 rounds of ammunition.”563
The Aryan Nations, or the Church of Jesus Christ Christian, is a white
racist militia movement with heavily-armed compounds in Utah and
Pennsylvania. It “has been linked to at least several dozen murders since
1980.”564 And Christian Identity leader David Lane was “convicted of
racketeering, conspiracy and violating the civil rights of a slain Jewish talkshow
host,” writes Don Lattin. Lane explained “his racist ‘end times’
prophecies” from a jailhouse.565 “I am the symbol that is going to stop the
Judeo-American murder of the white race,” bragged Lane. “Killing is
always justified for the preservation of your kind.”566
Examples of the potential for violence can be found in the 1993
Branch Davidian standoff with authorities. David Koresh and more than
seventy followers finally accepted their fate of going out in “a blazing
inferno.” At the Waco, Texas compound, Koresh stockpiled arms and
weapons, while teaching his Adventist theology.567 Moreover, Oklahoma
City bombers, Timothy McVeigh and Terry Nichols had inspiration from
a Texas militia movement. It had ties to extremist Christian groups,
including the Christian Identity sect.568
One way fundamentalists find it so easy to use violence is with the
view, “We cannot value ourselves and degrade and ultimately kill the other
unless we call God onto our side in the struggle.”569 H. Newton Maloney,
Senior Professor of Psychology at Fuller Theological Seminary, explains
similarly. Many fundamentalists believe literally in the devil and demonize
others, and by doing so, violence is more likely to occur.570 To the
fundamentalist, explained Strozier, “Those who refuse Jesus are not only
dumb, but also different, dangerous, and possibly contagious . . . Such
thinking can lend itself to potentially dangerous stereotyping.” Because the
fundamentalist sees the nonbeliever as only “tentatively human,”
nonbelievers are viewed as dispensable.571
Interestingly, nonbelievers to fundamentalists are not only atheists and
adherents of other religious beliefs. They are also liberal and mainstream
Christians who do not accept the dogma of Christian fundamentalism. For
fundamentalists who were not born into such views, there may be a
tendency to pity and sympathize with the nonbeliever. He or she may be a
reflection of the fundamentalist before salvation. Even this, however, can
146 The Fundamentals of Extremism
have a reverse effect. The reformist can often turn on the unreformed, who
symbolizes the abandoned enemy of the self.572
Many in the Christian militia movements are Reconstructionists, the
movement founded by Texas economist Gary North and Rousas John
Rushdoony. Reconstructionists’ envision a totalitarian society based on
literal interpretation of the Bible. Their goals include the reintroduction of
slavery, elimination of birth control, and a non-intervenable capitalist
society.573 Karen Armstrong admits it is highly unlikely for such a
movement to gain enough popularity in the United States; however, she
says it is not wholly impossible in an emergency state such as an economic
or environmental catastrophe. “Christianity, after all, was able to adapt to
capitalism, which was alien to many of the teachings of Jesus,” Armstrong
reminds. “It could also be used to back a fascist ideology that, in drastically
changed circumstances, might be necessary to maintain public order.”574
Reverend Norman E. Olson, a Baptist and the commander of the
Northern Michigan Regional Militia has expressed a desire to form a
national militia for purposes of creating an alliance between all of them.575
This desire should not be dismissed. According to the United Nations,
during the brief period of 1989 to 1992, seventy-nine of the world’s eightytwo
armed conflicts were within, rather than between countries. These
were a result of religious zealots, “destroying the opportunity of millions
worldwide to receive family planning, birth control, and legal abortion
services.”576 It is difficult to fathom and even improbable for such to take
place on American soil. But it is by no means an impossibility.
You are here: theories on social development
In discussing a segment of the population claiming to have the market
on morality, it seems inevitable that the development of moral and social
behavior come to be understood. Lawrence Kohlberg, a Harvard
University professor until his death in 1987, was the author of a landmark
work on moral development. He isolated six discrete stages of individual
moral maturity, which he divided into three main groups. The preconventional
level is observed mostly in early childhood; the conventional
level is what most of society subscribes to; and the post-conventional is a
level most adults never achieve.
The first two stages, under the pre-conventional level, are known as
“Punishment orientation” and “Pleasure-seeking orientation.” They are
commonly recognized on the school playground. This is behavior
reinforced by authority figures, which threatens reprisal for misbehavior or
promises rewards for good behavior.577
The Social Implications of Armageddon 147
The next two stages, under the conventional level are referred to as
“Good girl/ boy orientation” and “Authority orientation.” These are based
on the desire to please others, gain approval, and to uphold the law and
higher authority.578 Interestingly enough, religious morality holds to these
most rudimentary stages of morality. This is because it is based on absolute
pronouncements from God, the promise of heaven, and the threat of hell.
The third level, post-conventional, includes the “Social-contract
orientation” and the “Morality of individual principles” stages. Under this
level of morality, decisions are controlled internally going beyond selfinterest
and laws. Laws, although a necessity, are believed at this stage to
be based on rational thought and “mutual agreement.” The welfare of the
community is of concern at this higher level. And moral decisions are
based on “justice, dignity, and equality.”579 This final and highest level of
morality is in direct conflict with Christian fundamentalism. For
fundamentalists, everything is viewed in black and white terms, as subject
to the authority of God or a society’s laws. And these laws, they believe,
should be based on conservative Christian doctrines.
In the early 1900s, Emile Durkheim laid a foundation for modern
sociological theory. This can be viewed as the moral development of
society, in contrast to individual moral development. In his essays in “The
Division of Labor and Society” and “On Morality and Society,” he
described two stages of sociological development. They are characterized
by their form of solidarity, in other words, a union of community interests
and responsibilities.
The first is a period of “mechanical solidarity” and the second, a
period of individualism. The “mechanical” society’s connection is based
on features that people share. It is rooted in common ritual and routine.
Religion is a strong basis of mechanical solidarity, as it reinforces the
common code and societal expectations.580 As time goes on, however,
societal structures become more complex and require people to play
different roles. Organic solidarity develops out of the need for division of
labor and fosters a growing sense of individualism. It relies mainly on the
interdependence between people to reinforce social connections. As with
organs in a body, each person may do something very different from
another. But without the others, an individual could not survive. Reality
television shows are a nightly reminder of just how far people have come
from a time when survival was something they had to do on their own.
The transition from mechanical to organic solidarity is not easy.
Writing at the dawn of the twentieth century, Durkheim discussed the
moral crisis that had arrived with industrialization in terms people still find
very familiar a century later. He named this crisis of moral confusion
148 The Fundamentals of Extremism
anomy. It originates from a Greek term literally meaning lawlessness. He
warned, however, “the remedy for the evil is not to seek to resuscitate
traditions and practices. These no longer respond to present conditions of
society, so they can only live an artificial, false existence.”581 Instead, a
new morality is needed to cope with the new demands of society.582
David Riesman similarly described societal evolution as occurring in
stages. His work, more recent than Durkheim’s, goes on to discuss a third
stage. There are definite similarities between Riesman’s first two stages
and Durkheim’s mechanical and organic solidarity. But Riesman had a
different emphasis. He defined stages of development in terms of where
people find moral direction.
In the initial “tradition-directed” stage, the society has high growth
potential due to a high birth rate outpacing a high death rate. Traditiondirected
societies are based on ideological uniformity. They are “ruled by
fear of shame.”583 The tradition-directed society gradually reduces the
death rate through scientific advancements. Without moving to an “innerdirected”
transitional growth model, it will face severe population
pressures.584 Unless the birth rate is reduced to match the declining death
rate, excessive population will be addressed by mass deaths, such as
through famine, warfare, or ritual sacrifice.585
Riesman described the next two stages also in terms of population
growth. Inner-directed societies are in a transitional growth stage, where a
falling death rate is followed by a falling birth rate. The inner-directed
society is marked by nuclear parenting and centralized schooling as well as
being ruled by inner morality. This is possible because of parenting
practices conducive to such moral development that can be used in a
complex society.586 As a society becomes more other-directed, it sees
growth begin to decline. Constant movement of groups leads to individual
adaptability. Peer pressure and media control the other-directed society.587
The society of the Biblical era, which fundamentalists are trying hard
to resurrect, falls squarely into the tradition-directed category. The Old
Testament requests, “Be fruitful and multiply,”588 "Servants be obedient to
them that are your masters," and "Wives be in subjection to your own
husbands." Fundamentalism’s disdain for diversity fits well with the
tradition-directed society’s need for like beliefs. Here, shame is the
measure used to gain conformity.
As hinted by its name, tradition-directed society functions according to
an explicit and relatively inflexible moral code. This is seen in the Biblical
code fundamentalists would like to force all of society to follow. As with
Durkheim’s mechanical solidarity, this rigid code works when there are
only a few situations possible. People must generally carry the same role
The Social Implications of Armageddon 149
in society when they are at home, at work, at church, or at play, for the
code to function.
Inner-directed society begins to emerge when people’s roles become
more situational. It looks for moral guidance from an internal “moral
gyroscope.” This guides a person through a variety of situations with a
more flexible set of general rules. In today’s world, people can be fired
from their jobs for saying things that are normal in a less formal situation,
such as with family or friends. They might also end up divorced if they
treat their spouses exactly as they treat their employees. Therefore, a
flexible moral code is needed for social survival.
So, what does fundamentalism mean for Durkheim’s and Reisman’s
descriptions of social development and Kohlberg’s moral development?
Perhaps the best way to illustrate the clash between where we are and
where fundamentalists want to take us is to examine the Ten
Commandments. The 1980 Supreme Court decision Stone v. Graham
settled the debate over this relic by ruling that the display in courthouses
and public schools was unconstitutional.589 In the wake of the 1999
Columbine High School shooting there was, again, a strong movement to
post the Commandments in public buildings across the nation, especially
public schools.
Leading the charge was Judge Roy Moore of Alabama. He was
challenged in 1995, over his own posting of the Ten Commandments in
the courtroom.590 His battle picked up speed when conservative
Americans suggested that posting the Commandments in schools might
have averted tragedies such as the shooting in Littleton, Colorado. This
proposal, says the ACLU, “represents the worst possible thinking.”591 In
spite of this flawed logic, sales of Ten Commandments merchandise
increased dramatically. For one business, the Lighthouse Christian
Bookstore in Pikeville, Kentucky, sales for these items increased by more
than 400 percent between 1998 and 1999.592
Because fundamentalists take the Bible literally, they firmly believe
these commandments are both necessary and sufficient to regulate society.
For a pre-industrial tribal society, fundamentalists may be right. But there
are many risks to imposing outdated rules on modern America. First of all,
the first five commandments have little relevance to creating a moral
society. The first four deal with establishing a new, monotheistic religion,
that is, a doctrine that accepts there is only one God. “Thou shalt have no
other gods before me” and “Thou shalt not make any graven image”
establish there is no room for other deities.
Rule three makes sacred any words that refer to the Judeo-Christian
God in the command, “Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God
150 The Fundamentals of Extremism
in vain.” The fourth sets up the Sabbath. And the fifth commandment
requires adherents “Honor thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be
long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.”593 This
commandment may have some value. But without a companion piece for
parents to treat their children in a manner deserving of a child’s respect, it
is inefficient and even dangerous.
Commandment six, “Thou shalt not kill,”594 is one upon which
everyone can agree. A secular American law, however, has remained
intact without the need for the religious order of it. This “common-sense”
mandate originated at a time when people actually did need to be told
killing was wrong. By the twenty-first century, contemporary society
recognizes that killing other humans is generally wrong. It is also
developing definitions of when it is necessary to break this rule such as in
war or self-defense. Broad theological prohibitions only hamper the
development of suitable exceptions, while offering anti-abortionists
justification for their cause.
Ironically, the death penalty, most favored by fundamentalists, is
employed to punish people for breaking the same commandment.
Fundamentalists lead the fight against euthanasia, because this injunction
prohibits the causing of death. Yet, today our lives span entire centuries
without any specific prohibition against prolonging suffering. The
American life expectancy has more than doubled in the last century;595 as
our lives change, so do our needs. Therefore, the generalized language of
this commandment fails to even accomplish the initial task of defining
proscribed behavior. This leads to increased confusion, rather than
resolution and accord.
According to the seventh commandment, “Thou shalt not commit
adultery.”596 Marriage is one of the three cultural universals;597 that is,
every known culture defines marriage in one way or another, though
definitions of marriage vary widely over time and location. The Old
Testament defines marriage and adultery for a new religion, and our
current law regarding marriage mirrors this definition in many basic
respects, including the definition of adultery.
The exception is that the Old Testament laws pertaining to adultery
did not pertain to men, but rather women, except for men who had affairs
with married women. Today, thirty-seven states and the District of
Columbia recognize adultery as at least a misdemeanor. Several states still
consider it a felony. It is also grounds for divorce in all states allowing
fault-based divorce.598 When considering what social rules should govern
marriage, recognizing changes in life span and lifestyles is necessary.
The Social Implications of Armageddon 151
While people marry much later and divorce more often than a century ago,
the average amount of time-spent married has changed very little.
Many alarmist publications from fundamentalist organizations misuse
facts. They claim the average American marriage lasts only six or seven
years, neglecting to mention this includes only marriages ending in
divorce. On average, Americans spend twenty-six years married during
their lifetime, and only sixteen percent have been married two or more
times.599 Marriages ending in the death of a spouse last on average fortythree
years today, compared with only twenty-eight years at the dawn of
the twentieth century.600 Given that the circumstances surrounding
marriage have changed so dramatically, our standards must be revised.
Today, adultery has lost its dominant position as a threat to the institution
of marriage and domestic harmony. It is replaced by spousal and child
abuse.601 Therefore, a more appropriate commandment would be “Thou
shalt not beat thy child or wife.”
“Thou shalt not steal”602 is the succinct eighth commandment. This is
firmly on “common sense” ground. From petty theft to grand larceny,
stealing is the subject of a huge proportion of criminal law. Today, the
Golden Rule can easily cover theft. Therefore, this commandment, while
not actually counterproductive, serves no explicit purpose in defining
morality and law. Our society universally recognizes the desirability and
practicality of ownership.
Commandment nine is, essentially, an injunction against lying: “Thou
shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor.”603 However, as
sweeping and broad as most of the commandments are, the restriction
“against thy neighbor” sets this one apart. There are a number of
interpretations of the “neighbor” clause. Critics of Biblical ethics interpret
it most literally to mean it is perfectly all right to lie about any number of
things, including total strangers. But it is only a violation to be disloyal and
untrue about those of your community or tribe.
David R. Weissbard of the Unitarian Universalist Church shed a bit
more light on the subject. He pointed out that at the time of writing this
commandment, it meshed very well with Hammurabi’s Code of Laws and
was specifically about respecting the brand-new judicial process.604 He
said, “While [behavior in legal judgments] was apparently critically
important at the time, people’s behavior in a court is hardly among the
greatest moral issues of our time.” Hammurabi may deserve credit for his
invention of a justice system. But today's trial law is significantly more
advanced and includes penalties for perjury and other abuses of the system.
The final component of the commands is perhaps the most telling
when considering the era of this rule set: “Thou shalt not covet thy
152 The Fundamentals of Extremism
neighbour’s house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's wife, nor his
manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any thing that
is thy neighbour's.”605 Like bearing false witness, restricting covetousness
could be a useful injunction in our current society, if it did not as a piece
include the definition of what is owned. Our laws against owning people
are seventy years younger than the U.S. Constitution. They were the
breaking point in our only Civil War. There may be value in denouncing
covetousness in today’s competitive social arena. Yet, the reference to a
wife or servants as the property of another person is completely
inappropriate for our contemporary moral code. It can serve as a
justification to those who would undermine the civil liberties of vulnerable
groups.
Three thousand years ago, this top-ten list of moral pronouncements
functioned as a foundation of a new faith. It established revolutionary
social agreements taken for granted today. As American society has
developed, older moral predicaments have been resolved only to see them
replaced by brand-new complications. As a documentation of our moral
and legal heritage, the commandments may have value. Still, as a
comprehensive guiding principle, they fall far short of addressing our
needs.
Given the extreme stress placed on society by the clash between
fundamentalist and mainstream ideals, it is clear our nation is not anytime
soon going to give in to the pressure and adopt Biblical law as our main
code of ethics. In spite of this, religious conservatives continue to exert
influence on nearly every facet of our lives. This results in often
undesirable and, occasionally, disastrous, consequences.
To apply a single explicit moral code, our social environment would
have to dramatically simplify in ways none of us are prepared to cope with.
It is simply not possible to remove the effects of progress that are changing
the world without also removing progress itself. The fundamentalist vision
of returning to a high-growth potential, traditionalist, mechanically solid
society is, therefore, an unfeasible dream. To do so, Americans would have
to give up medical advances that increase lifespan, as well as much
industry and technology that depends on highly specialized roles.
It is not possible to accomplish fundamentalists’ goals without setting
back the technological clock at least a few hundred years. Yet,
fundamentalists are actively working against social progress. In so doing,
they increase the difficulty of developing a new moral code to regulate an
other-directed society. They even ask that the inner-directed morality
Americans have depended on for more than a century be dismissed. At the
same time, by showing admiration for fundamentalist faithfulness to the
The Social Implications of Armageddon 153
Scripture, mainstream Christianity is in a position to unwittingly foster this
moral dilemma. Most churches and adherents inwardly reject many of the
“fundamentals” that most conservative movements are based on. But they
are usually hesitant to explicitly denounce all but the most obviously
harmful social policies.
The effects of fundamentalism ripple through the entire population as
poverty, crime, and general unhappiness permeate society. Unwanted
children raised by their birth parents often face serious abuse and neglect
and are ultimately responsible for high crime rates. Those waiting for
adoption have few chances of securing a loving home. Even children
resulting from unplanned pregnancies who are not mistreated or neglected
by their birth parents often live in poverty. This in itself has negative
consequences on the child’s physical and emotional health and intellectual
development. Thus, it leads to a bleak outlook for escaping poverty later in
life.
Those most targeted by the religious right, such as gays and lesbians,
find their basic rights violated and even legislated out of existence. This is
because of the inherent evil placed on homosexuality by fundamentalism.
African-Americans and other races continue to face many less noticeable
discriminatory practices that persist. And both groups suffer from hate
crimes.
Others, especially as they enter adulthood, are at risk for recruitment
into emotionally-damaging, even traumatic, sects or cults. All Americans
are at increased risk for victimization from a wide variety of crimes that
result from ineffective and counterproductive laws. Fundamentalists’
repressive beliefs may also have a role in mental illness. This plays out in
the form of mass murder, serial killing, and other violent crimes. Finally,
there is the strong potential for acts of terrorism and armed conflict
resulting from fundamentalists’ glorification of war and the growth of their
military complexes and weapons arsenals.
Many lessons have been learned in the turbulent history of the world
and even America. It is hoped they are sufficient to prevent the
fundamentalist agenda from gaining further strength in its attempt to do
away with America’s diversity—and to reverse what damage has already
been done.
154
Chapter 6
THE PATH TO THEOCRACY
THE PURGATION
OF THE FIRST AMENDMENT
by John M. Suarez, M.D.
The “wall of separation between church and state” is a metaphor based
on bad history, a metaphor that has proved useless as a guide to judging. It
should be frankly and explicitly abandoned.606
Justice William H. Rehnquist (1985)
Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of
religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the
freedom of speech or of the press, or of the right of the people
peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government for a
redress of grievances.607
The first sixteen words of the First Amendment, ordinary and
commonplace, address the relationship between government and religion.
This would be a seemingly hopeless task for even hundreds, nay,
thousands, of words. Yet, the last two centuries have revealed the
sociopolitical experiment, embodied in those bitterly hammered out and
ultimately well-chosen words, has been nothing short of unique and
revolutionary. Nonetheless, so few words cannot anticipate or cope with
the inevitable complex situations that will arise. And so, different
interpretations have blossomed and will continue to do so indefinitely.
True “separationists,” those favoring separation of church and state, in
contrast to “accommodationists,” find themselves frequently fighting
uphill. Separationists rely on the recorded deliberations and decisions of
the Founding Fathers and subsequent clarifications from the United States
Supreme Court, when available. Such efforts are necessary to convince the
The Path to Theocracy 155
rest of Americans as to the essence of the concept and the wisdom of
keeping government and religion separate.
Most wars, conquests, and bloodsheds throughout human history have
featured a strong religious element. This has not relented into the present.
The twentieth century saw religion-fueled carnage in Northern Ireland, the
Middle East, the Balkans, and many regions in Asia and Africa.
Religiously-fueled and maintained wars are incredibly savage. But besides
this, the most common element of such wars has been the inability to
resolve the conflict and allow the populations involved to exist in
reasonable harmony and mutual acceptance. This is so, despite ongoing
efforts from seasoned negotiators.
The opening of the twenty-first century has been just as foreboding.
The unimaginable, well-orchestrated events of September 11, 2001, have
plunged the world into an apparent confrontation. It is between Islam, a
religious tradition that has evolved very differently from Christianity, and
what is often referred to as the “Modern World.” Here too, the efforts of
religious scholars and well-meaning peace promoters have thus far been
impotent in dampening the fires of religious passion and
misunderstanding.
It is against such a background that the wisdom and power of the First
Amendment can best be appreciated. This basic concept of the Founding
Fathers has occasionally been clarified and amplified by the courts. But it
has single-handedly kept our society over the past 200 years from plunging
into the bottomless pit of religious war. This has been far from easy, not
surprisingly. Our society serves as home to the world’s largest number of
religions, large and small, well recognized and hardly known.
Some sociologists have even credited the First Amendment with the
fact the United States is a more religious country than any of its western
counterparts. In many countries, there exist various levels of government
subsidization of religion. The combined enlightenment of the Free
Exercise and Establishment Clauses, they contend, has been a better
stimulus to religious activity than tax revenues. Given all of the above, it is
a remarkable success story by any political standard. So, why is there
discontent, and what is causing the attempts to revise or totally dismantle
the First Amendment?
The dissatisfaction stems directly from the success of the First
Amendment. It has served as a catalyst for the creation of a society with
true religious freedom and harmony in the context of religious pluralism.
At the same time, the rights of those who profess the absence of religious
belief have not been overlooked. But, there are those in our midst
unwilling to coexist and tolerate such differences. Their ideology demands
156 The Fundamentals of Extremism
their belief system be paramount and exclusive of others. They would like
their particular brand of religion to permeate all aspects of private and
public life. They are overtly threatened by the availability and circulation
of alternatives. Most importantly, the First Amendment, they are painfully
aware, constitutes the most powerful remedy against the establishment of a
theocracy.
Thus, we see many efforts, like those of Republican Representative
Ernest Istook of Oklahoma. He unsuccessfully attempted to legislate the
Religious Freedom Amendment several years ago. It was a constitutional
amendment with the intent of neutralizing the First Amendment as it has
evolved over the past 200 years.608 What is most worrisome is that Istook
elicited so much support from fellow legislators. Efforts to topple or
weaken the First Amendment are not limited to one-punch attempts to
“vote” it out. They also come in subtler, gradual steps. Examples of such
are judicial decisions by courts with a majority of jurists who have a very
different perspective on what the Founding Fathers had in mind. These
steps can eventually erode the First Amendment’s protective elements.
Another section of the First Amendment has also come into play in the
ongoing juggling between religious freedom and maintaining a secular
government. The First Amendment also provides for “freedom of speech.”
It is listed second to highlight its importance, right behind freedom of
conscience. As was readily discovered, scenarios can be constructed in
which one freedom is pitted against the other, with the primary goal of
eroding the wall of separation between church and state. For example, a
public school teacher might attempt to promote his faith directly in the
classroom or include materials from it into his assignments. If, and
typically only if, a student or family makes an issue of it and the school
administration sets limits on such behavior, will the matter come to light.
In such an event, ample support may come from fundamentalist
organizations. So, it is not uncommon for the teacher, under such
circumstances, to claim his or her freedom of speech has been violated.
This has become a powerful tool to undermine the religion/government
segment of the First Amendment and the practice likely to become more
extensive.
Antecedents to religious liberty
Not all residents in pre-Revolutionary America favored the
Democratic model that ultimately emerged. The predecessors of today’s
fundamentalist Christians opposed the contemporary notion of religious
freedom and were very troubled by the blossoming pluralism around the
The Path to Theocracy 157
Colonies. The diverse aspect of our present society will continue to fuel
such discontent given the historical judicial interpretations of the First
Amendment. As Boston has pointed out, Pilgrims and Puritans who came
to these shores to escape religious persecution seemed perfectly content to
establish their own brand of theocracy, creating “religious freedom” only
for themselves.609
Roger Williams is the best-known dissenter of his time. Despite his
absolutistic religious views, he took issue with any government’s role in
promoting and enforcing orthodoxy. The colony he settled in Providence,
Rhode Island, was the only region coming close to the practice of religious
freedom as we conceive it today. Yet, his contribution to the eventual
Constitution and Bill of Rights has been underplayed historically. His
writings clearly reflect his understanding and promotion of diversification,
or the separation of church and state, as well as the inherent value of
pluralism.610
As Christian historian Robert R. Handy has pointed out, state support
of religion correlated little to the extent of religiosity among the
population.611 Outside of Rhode Island, the situation varied among the
colonies including taxes to support specific religious ideologies; the
persecution of Catholics, Quakers and other minorities; and, of course, the
execution of witches in Massachusetts.612
Although theocratic rigidity probably softened gradually, significant
winds of change were not felt until the contributions of Virginia’s two
most famous sons. Thomas Jefferson and James Madison served as
catalysts and spokesmen for progressive trends. Madison struggled with
the concept of religious liberty eventually abandoning the popular notion
of “toleration” in favor of the more radical notion of the right to “the full
and free exercise of religion.”613 He was influenced by European
philosophers, particularly John Locke, a proponent of political secularism
and the keeping of religion and government separate.614
Madison was most articulate in arguing on behalf of what ultimately
became the Establishment Clause. Jefferson’s writings were crucial to the
notion of religious freedom. He rightly insisted his bill was designed to
protect all religious persuasions, including “the infidel of any
denomination,” that is, non-believers.615 Therefore, the Founding Fathers
proceeded to create a framework for the revolutionary concept of
democracy, a secular state, and the coexistence of government and
religion. It derived from a combination of personal experiences and the
writings of Enlightenment philosophers.
Most people are unaware the Bill of Rights was originally
controversial. Even Madison had doubts. Not because he opposed civil
158 The Fundamentals of Extremism
liberties, but out of concerns that listing specific rights might lead to the
interpretation that only those rights were guaranteed by the Constitution.
Eventually, luckily for us, the need for clarity and emphasis overcame this
concern. The Bill of Rights was developed as a necessary complement to
the Constitution.616
The detailed evolution of the First Amendment, which Madison
drafted, is fascinating, but beyond the scope of this writing. But
consideration of the framers changing of wording and whether or not to
include certain amendments throughout the process is essential to
developing insight as to their intent. Most scholars have come to the
consensus, as Boston puts it, that “the First Amendment is a command to
government to keep its hands off religion—neither aiding nor hindering
it—to the fullest extent possible.”617
Years later, in 1802, Jefferson characterized the First Amendment as
building a “wall of separation between church and state”618 when he wrote
to the Danbury Baptists:
I contemplate with sovereign reverence that act of the whole
American people which declared that their legislature should
‘make no law regarding an establishment of religion, or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof,’ thus building a wall of
separation between Church and State.619
Anti-separationists, including United States Supreme Court Chief Justice
William H. Rehnquist, have criticized Jefferson’s metaphor as “based on
bad history” and a poor guide to “judging,” concluding that “it should be
frankly and explicitly abandoned.”620
This brings us to a key argument of Christian fundamentalists, namely,
that the United States was founded as a Christian nation. As Boston points
out, this assertion confuses the fact that our government was created as a
political unit and the broader historical perspective of the conquest and
settlement of North America by Europeans.621 There were minority
attempts during the Constitutional Convention favoring recognition of
Christianity in shaping our laws, but these ideas were rejected.622 This led
to the Constitution’s emergence as a purely secular document. It is,
therefore, no accident the entire document is devoid of religious references.
This was made clear in 1797, when the Treaty of Tripoli was
approved by the Senate, under John Adams. It unequivocally stated, “the
Government of the United States is not, in any sense founded on the
Christian religion.”623 Of course, none of those revelations are surprising to
The Path to Theocracy 159
those who appreciate the wisdom of the First Amendment and the
sociopolitical benefits it has reaped over the past two centuries.
Yet, Christian fundamentalists continue to contend, in ever more
frequent and louder claims, this is a Christian nation. The United States has
lost touch with its Christian origins, they argue. This has come about
because of a pluralism that is out of control, misguided legislation, and
“incorrect” decisions by “liberal” judges. This is such a key issue to
anyone seeking a theocratic direction, that it will not be abandoned
regardless of historical evidence to the contrary. The myth of the United
States being a Christian nation allows for the promotion and insertion of
religion into all aspects of public and governmental endeavors. This is
justified on the grounds all contemporary social ills are the result of the
removal of God and religion from the public square. When bounds of
sensitivity and the Establishment Clause are crossed and people react, the
situation is misrepresented as “another” example of Christian persecution
by faithless or misguided individuals, usually accompanied by a fair share
of distortion and hype. The broader version, found particularly among
younger persons, involves claims that religion in the abstract is under
assault. Unless they have been properly prepared, however, they are
usually hard pressed when asked by whom or for what purpose is the
assault.
The law of the land
As Trustee of Americans United for Separation of Church and State, I
address general audiences on the topics of the First Amendment and
separation of church and state. I often begin by quoting the first sixteen
words of the First Amendment and asking what they mean. Most of the
answers focus on specific issues and reflect some general understanding of
the concept. These responses allow me, as the speaker, to size up the
audience’s level of sophistication, so I can adjust my presentation
accordingly. Eventually, I offer them the punch line: “they mean whatever
the United States Supreme Court says they mean.” This leads to the most
pertinent issue, the composition of the Supreme Court.
Early in its judicial history, the First Amendment was dissected into
two components. These are commonly referred to as the Free Exercise
Clause and the Establishment Clause.624 Free Exercise focused on making
sure the government, through all of its manifestations, did not interfere
with the practice of religion. At the same time, it protected all traditions,
particularly minority ones. Establishment, understandably far more
controversial, dealt with the limitations imposed on government in terms
160 The Fundamentals of Extremism
of involving itself in religious activity. Conservatives repeatedly comment
that the Establishment Clause was intended only to limit government from
espousing or establishing a particular religion. Secularists and freethinkers,
those who reject religious authority and dogma, on the other hand, interpret
the Establishment Clause as providing “freedom from religion.” Religious
freedom, at least outwardly, is not a major concern for most in our society.
It is therefore, not surprising most of the judicial cases, particularly those
making their way through appeal process, deal with the Establishment
Clause.625
Some years ago, the radical religious right tried to document its claim
of epidemic assaults on religion and persecution of religious Americans.
But it was hard pressed to come up with significant numbers of cases and
ended up parading old and distorted ones. In school settings, situations
sometimes lead to repression of appropriate religious expression
inadvertently or through poor judgment. Most individual situations as these
are typically resolved and corrected quickly and informally, thus not
leading to litigation and judicial opinions.
The two Clauses of the First Amendment are best conceptualized as
two distinct edges of the same sword. In fact, many judicial pundits
consider the Establishment Clause as the most potent protector of the Free
Exercise Clause. This is because of its limitations on the government in
terms of promoting or establishing a major religion, thus maintaining all
religions on a level plane.
It is impossible, under the limitations of this chapter, to cite every
judicial decision over the past two centuries that has helped to mold our
contemporary interaction between church (religion) and state
(government). In mid-nineteenth century, Horace Mann, a Unitarian, was
instrumental, both as a member of the Massachusetts Board of Education
and as a legislator, in opposing sectarianism in public schools. This
ultimately promoted a concept of public education as religiously neutral.626
The conflicts between the overwhelming majority of Protestants and
Catholics throughout the nineteenth century were mostly resolved outside
of the courts. This revealed a very different approach to church and state
conflict resolution as compared to today. The Catholics lost most of the
battles. This led to the creation of Catholic parochial schools as a way to
resolve differences as to the type of prayers and Bible readings practiced in
the schools. Nevertheless, it is interesting that the earliest judicial
challenges to religious exercises in public schools, in Ohio and Illinois,
were brought by Catholics. This is in contrast to the complainants in
contemporary cases.627
The Path to Theocracy 161
What are today viewed as the key cases in the evolution of the First
Amendment blossomed in the second half of the twentieth century. The
1947 Everson v. Board of Education case allowed the use of public bus
services by parochial school students.628 Justice Hugo Black’s writing
raised the bar in terms of public money and religion, as he argued:
The First Amendment of the Constitution means at least this:
Neither a state nor the federal government can set up a church.
Neither can pass laws which aid one religion, aid all religions, or
prefer one religion over another. . . . No tax in any amount, large
or small, can be levied to support any religious activities or
institutions, whatever they may be called, or whatever form they
may adopt to teach or practice religion.629
In the 1948 McCollum v. Board of Education (8-1) decision, Black
again concluded clergy and others should not be allowed on school
grounds for religious educational purposes.630 However, in the 1952
Zorach v. Clauson opinion, the Supreme Court allowed public school
students to be released to attend religious classes away from public school
premises.631 Then ten years later, two monumental decisions returned the
Court to a clearer separationist stance. In Engel v. Vitale (6-1) the Court
rendered unconstitutional school-sponsored prayer.632 Similarly, a year
later, public school Bible reading in the Abington Township School District
v. Schempp (8-1) experienced the same fate.633 Contrary to claims by
fundamentalists today, the practices of school-sponsored prayer and Bible
reading were not widespread throughout the country anyway. In the Engel
case, Black added that the Establishment Clause’s “first and most
immediate purpose rested on the belief a union of government and religion
tends to destroy government, and degrade religion.”
In 1971, the Court in Lemon v. Kurtzman rendered laws
unconstitutional in Pennsylvania and Rhode Island that allowed for public
funds to be used to cover parochial school teachers’ salaries while dealing
with “secular” subjects. Even more importantly, in that decision, the Court
created a three-part test to gauge First Amendment violations. A
government practice or law was considered to violate church-state
separation if (1) it does not have a secular purpose, (2) it has the primary
effect of advancing or inhibiting religion, and/or (3) it fosters excessive
entanglement between government and religion. The Lemon Test has been
invoked frequently in subsequent decisions, to protect church and state
separation leading to a crescendo of calls by religious right proponents for
its discontinuation.634
162 The Fundamentals of Extremism
The past two decades have seen both solid judicial victories for the
“wall of separation” and definite erosions. In 1980 Stone v. Graham (7-2),
a Kentucky law requiring public schools to post copies of the Ten
Commandments in every classroom was declared unconstitutional.635
Then in 1985 Wallace v. Jaffree (6-3) struck down an Alabama law
requiring public schools to set aside a moment of silence for meditation.636
In 1992, Lee v. Weisman (5-4) disallowed public schools from sponsoring
invocations at graduation ceremonies.637 In that case, Justice Anthony
Kennedy, writing for the majority, said, “The First Amendment’s Religion
clauses mean that religious beliefs and religious expressions are too
precious to be either proscribed or prescribed by the state.” And, in the
2000 Santa Fe Independent School District v. Doe (6-3) decision, schoolsponsored
prayers at athletic events were disallowed.638
Looking at the flip side, the 1990 Board of Education v. Mergens (8-1)
case was less than reassuring. The Court upheld the Federal Equal Access
Act of 1984 requiring public secondary schools to allow religious clubs to
meet on campus if other non-curriculum clubs are also allowed.639 This
opened the door to the 2001 Good News Club v. Milford Central School
(7-2), which allowed evangelists access to public schools after school
hours.640
The judicial history of evolution deserves individual attention. It
models the nature of the conflict between the First Amendment and
fundamental Christianity. Darwin’s On the Origin of Species by Means of
Natural Selection was published in 1859. But conservative Christians had
the upper hand in blocking the teaching of the scientific theory of evolution
for more than a century. In the unanimous 1968 Epperson v. Arkansas
decision, the Court struck down an Arkansas law prohibiting the teaching
of evolution in public universities and secondary schools.641 Almost
twenty years later, in the 1987 decision Edwards v. Aguillard (7-2), the
Court invalidated a Louisiana law that required public schools to offer
“balanced treatment” between evolution and creationism.642 These
developments, however, have not slowed down the creationists and their
allies one bit. Evolution remains a taboo subject in many areas of the
country, and creationism is smuggled regularly into public school science
classrooms. This is almost exclusively an American phenomenon. Other
industrialized countries around the world have resolved the scientific issue
unequivocally.
The judicial evolution of the Free Exercise Clause has been slow, in
contrast to its much flashier sibling. There was a development in 1990,
which took some people by surprise and which is now beginning to come
into focus. Prior to 1990, the Supreme Court seemed committed to a
The Path to Theocracy 163
liberal interpretation of the Free Exercise Clause. In cases involving a
conflict between law and religious activity, the state was expected to bend
and yield, within reason, through the notion of the “least restrictive”
alternative. Then along came Employment Division v. Smith (6-3), a case
involving the use of peyote, an illegal drug, in a Native American religious
ceremony.643 In a radical turn around, Justice Antonin Scalia, writing for
the majority, advanced the notion the government need not have a
“compelling reason” before applying existing laws, which incidentally
happen to interfere with religious practice.
The decision triggered complaints and concerns in many quarters.
Protectors of religious freedom feared the conceptual change in the
decision raised doubts as to the potential for minority religions to survive.
The loss of protection for one faith endangers all faiths, including the status
of non-believers. Majority religions are not immediately affected since
their long-standing practices have been accommodated to existing laws or
more likely, the reverse, that is, existing laws have been shaped to coexist
with established religious practices. There have been attempts to legislate a
return to the “good old days.” The Religious Freedom Restoration Act
(RFRA), which was rejected by the Supreme Court is but one example. So
far, the efforts have not been successful. The RFRA attempted legislation
to reestablish the notions of “compelling reason” and “least restrictive”
alternative as guides to religious practices in conflict with general law.
In summary, the last decade has seen a major shift in how the United
States Supreme Court is disposed to interpret both the Free Exercise and
Establishment Clauses of the First Amendment. There have been outright
reversals from a longstanding, predictable trend that was indisputably
separationist such as the 2001 Good News Club decision trumping the
1948 McCollum decision. More subtly, the Justices’ votes within each
decision have become closer. The days are no longer when our anxiety
was low and we could inherently trust the Supreme Court to decide
properly. That is, to preserve the Founding Fathers’ basis for the First
Amendment and a robust wall of separation between Church and State.
The composition of the Supreme Court has become the issue. At the turn
of the twenty-first century, it was unbalanced, with the future looking
ominous. The administration, under George W. Bush, made no secret its
intention to nominate judges, to both the Supreme Court and the federal
bench, who adhere to its views of the world and the First Amendment, in
particular. Implementation of drastic policies by the Bush Administration,
affecting the economy, the environment, international relations, and more,
will have long-term effects. Regardless of political orientation, these will
all pale in comparison to the impact its judicial appointments will have for
164 The Fundamentals of Extremism
decades to come. We are only able to glance at a fleeting moment in a
complex, unfolding process.
Visions of violations
As a long-time social activist, I find myself dealing with several “hot”
issues at once. There is no question the number of challenges to the First
Amendment has skyrocketed over the past decade. It has become even
worse after the horrible events of September 11, 2001. Our “firemen” are
having to fight many blazes and infernos simultaneously, both nationally
and regionally. These result in the thinning of resources to a dangerous
level. Given this reality, to a greater degree than ever, we have to make
priority lists and difficult choices.
In this context, I have found definite value in classifying church and
state issues into two conceptual categories. I label these the “symbolic” and
the “substantive.” These are clearly not pure categories. As will be
illustrated, each situation contains elements of both. Nevertheless, the
categorization helps us make choices and understand strategies operating
below the surface.
By “symbolic,” I mean issues that manifestly insert religion into the
public square, and in the process, defy the generally agreed limits of
separation. They impact the climate, moving us away from the notion of a
secular society. Examples include “In God We Trust” in the currency, the
posting of the Ten Commandments in public schools and courthouses, and
government sponsored prayers in public contexts. “Substantive” issues, on
the other hand, including school vouchers, Charitable Choice, and
curricular censoring, focus on altering the very fiber of our society.
Symbolic issues attract immediate attention. A majority of the
population has some awareness the pot is percolating. In contrast,
substantive matters lie below the public radar. Until recently, the man in
the street had no inkling about the inherent complications in using public
funds for parochial school vouchers. Even more dramatically, although
Charitable Choice was enacted back in 1996, to this date, very few hands
go up when I ask audiences if they have heard of it.
The radical religious right’s strategy is simple. They flaunt the
symbolic challenges, perfectly happy to draw maximum attention to them.
They have no illusion of winning all, or even most, of them. What they
accomplish is distraction from the substantive matters. Those are the real
battles they must win to achieve the necessary socio-political power to
advance us toward a theocracy. This creates a real dilemma for the
protectors of the First Amendment. Both types of issues should be
The Path to Theocracy 165
opposed whenever they surface. But the resources are not there to fight on
all fronts. At the very least, separationists must pay close attention to public
awareness or the lack thereof. Thus, substantive issues must not be
resolved without full public scrutiny.
Symbolic challenges to the concept of separation of church and state
were on the sharp rise well before the events of September 11, 2001, which
opened the floodgates. The Good News Club case was a major victory for
fundamentalists and their allies. This was the first time overt religious
activity coupled with proselytization, or recruiting, had entered the school
setting. The Child Evangelism Fellowship, for example, is committed to
recruiting children, ideally starting in kindergarten. The child, they believe,
can open the door to the possibility of evangelizing the whole family. They
have even developed materials for preliterate children.644
On another front, in 2000, the Reverend Donald Wildmon, who runs
the American Family Association, began pushing for the passage of laws
requiring public schools to post “In God We Trust.”645 He argued, since it
is the national motto (only since 1956), it was, therefore, conceptually
different than the Ten Commandments. He developed appropriate posters,
to be sold, to facilitate the effort. Prior to the assault on the schools, “In
God We Trust” was added to the new design of the Georgia State flag in
2001. The original United States motto “E Pluribus Unum,” meaning
“From Many One,” was entirely secular. It was not until the midnineteenth
century the overtly religious motto began appearing
sporadically in currency.
The 1980 Supreme Court decision in Stone v. Graham seemed
definitive in excluding the Ten Commandments from government settings,
including public schools. This perception was reinforced when the
Supreme Court in 2001 refused to hear an appeal from a lower court
ruling. It disallowed a government granite-monument display of the Ten
Commandments in Elkhart, Indiana. Instead, showing typical
fundamentalist perseverance, many cases involving displays have sprung
up all over the country. The justification usually provided contends the Ten
Commandments are the basis of American secular law, but it is a position
lacking historical support. Perhaps the most conspicuous incident in this
context was the unveiling of a 5,280-pound granite display. It was placed
in the rotunda of the Alabama Judicial Building in Montgomery, home to
the State Supreme Court and the State Appeals Courts.646 Despite
challenges, the monument remains undisturbed.
Substantive developments have not lagged behind. Prior to 1996 and
Charitable Choice, there was a sharp and generally accepted distinction as
to how public funds were distributed to religious organizations. There was
166 The Fundamentals of Extremism
no problem in tax money going to “religiously-affiliated” organizations
such as Catholic Charities, Lutheran Services in America, and Jewish
Family Services. These organizations provided social services with
funding from both private and public sources. These were provided
without a religious message and with appropriate constitutional safeguards.
“Pervasively sectarian” institutions, meaning churches and organizations
where religious practice is included during the delivery of the social
program, however, were not entitled to public funds because of the
obvious violation of the First Amendment.
John Ashcroft, then Republican Senator from Missouri, succeeded in
1996 in passing several pieces of legislation. They were subsumed under
the title of Charitable Choice. The gap between the “religiously-affiliated”
and the “pervasively-sectarian” essentially vanished. The latter became
available to receive public funds and operate without any adjustments, free
from most government oversight. The new scenario created a most
seductive temptation for religious organizations. They could accept public
funds for the provision of social services, without the apparent risk of
diluting their religious identity. But there are many problems with this
development. First and foremost, it represents a violation of the First
Amendment and the separation of church and state, as well as state
constitutions. Beyond that, it invites the inevitable regulation of churches
by government. It interferes with the religious liberty of beneficiaries by
failing to provide adequate alternatives. Since government cannot or
should not play favorites among religious ideologies, fringe groups would
be equally entitled to receive tax aid. Voluntary, or private, contributions
are likely to diminish if the church programs are already funded with tax
dollars. Finally, it could become the first step toward the transfer of social
services entirely from the public to the private sector.
Interestingly, over the six years since its passage, Charitable Choice
has developed very slowly. Several factors have been identified. Doubt
and uncertainty have resulted in the lack of implementation of the
necessary fiscal mechanisms, and the overall budget has not been
increased, so funds have not been generally available. Perhaps most
crucial, religious organizations have remained leery of dependency on
questionable funds and the government oversight that inevitably follows
the granting of public money. The fact the program has hardly taken off
probably also explains the lack of court challenges on constitutional
grounds.
Complementing and expanding Charitable Choice is the Bush
administration’s “Faith-Based Initiative.”647 It was one of the first
programs unveiled by Bush on taking office. The President’s perception
The Path to Theocracy 167
of the First Amendment and his massive commitment to the radical
religious right are revealed clearly by this plan. At the time it was
introduced, he commented that it is “one of the most important initiatives
that my administration not only discusses but implements.” He proceeded
to create a new federal agency, the Office of Faith-Based and Community
Initiatives.
To the Administration’s disappointment, the initiative has not done
well in terms of widespread enthusiasm.648 The associated bill, the
Community Solutions Act, eventually passed the House. But as of this
writing, it has yet to be considered seriously in the Senate. Even expected
supporters, such as Pat Robertson, raised qualms at the prospect of
“unorthodox” denominations getting their share of the “faith-based” pie.
Another setback was the resignation of the head of the White House
Initiative, John DiIulio. He made it clear he was fed up with criticism from
both the Right and the Left.649
The problems with the Faith-Based Initiatives closely mirror those
inherent in the concept of Charitable Choice. The use of tax dollars to
subsidize religious programs clearly violates the separation of church and
state. Despite receiving public funds, the religious institutions involved can
legally discriminate when hiring on the basis of religion. The religious
freedom of the recipient of the service could easily be jeopardized, as the
religious message becomes mixed within the overall effort. Given the
government’s obligation to monitor what it finances, religious activity
would inescapably become regulated. As also mentioned previously, the
incentive of the private community to contribute would be diminished by
the presence of tax dollars. Given the size of the pie would be finite and
probably relatively small, religious groups could and would end up
fighting with one another for what may be available. Worse, some
religions would be favored over others, depending on who controlled the
funds and the disbursements. Although religious centers would be favored
over secular providers, which is the very intent of the bill, there is no proof
they offer better care or achieve more successful results. It can only be
hoped the high level of concern and opposition stemming from different
quarters can be maintained, leading to the ultimate demise of the program.
Finally, comes the issue of “vouchers,” the funding of private
education with public money. Different schemes have evolved in this
struggle. The principle of using tax dollars to finance private, particularly
parochial, education remains the key ingredient. Even the word “voucher,”
after many rejections in public referenda, has been replaced by more
seductive terms like “parental choice” and “opportunity scholarship.”
168 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Public education has been the main target of the radical religious right
from the beginning. This is understandable because a vibrant and effective
system of public education is incompatible with the establishment of a
theocracy. The radical religious right has concluded it is necessary to
malign public education as a step toward the goal of weakening through
the denial of funding. Despite inherent constitutional flaws and the
perennial absence of popular support, school vouchers continue to be
promoted in a variety of settings and in different packages. Beginning in
the state of New York in 1967, there have been more than twenty-five
public referenda among many of the states. Voters have, nevertheless,
consistently rejected the notion of vouchers and other tax aids to religious
and private schools.650
The case against vouchers has always been, and remains strong.651
Beyond the primary issue of violation of the First Amendment and
separation of church and state, there is no popular support as evidenced,
time and again through public referenda. Vouchers will not ensure
“parental choice” because private and religious school administrators, in
contrast to the public school setting, will always retain the right to accept or
reject applicants. There is no evidence to support the claim vouchers will
improve the public school system by promoting competition in education.
Though it can and should be improved, the American public school system
is not failing our children and our society.652 Even beyond the issue of
choice, poor families will not be able to afford private schools with the
relatively small amounts of money allocated to vouchers. As Sandra
Feldman, president of the American Federation of Teachers, put it:
“Vouchers do not mean reform, no matter what name you give them.
What they do mean is a radical abandonment of public schools and public
education.”653
It is no accident the fundamentalists, despite repeated rejections in
public referenda, continue relentlessly to push vouchers. Not everyone in
favor of vouchers should be assumed to be a fundamentalist or committed
to the eradication of public education, however. There is dissatisfaction
with local deficits in the public school system and the slowness of our
society to correct such, and many people have come to believe we are
ready to try an “alternative” solution. Allowing for the dust to settle, even
after undergoing cosmetic changes and deceptive packaging, school
vouchers remain both a scam and a hoax. They are a scam because the true
purpose has been and remains the undermining and ultimate elimination of
public education. They are a hoax to the economically-deprived because
they cannot deliver the seductive promise of educational opportunities on a
par with wealthy families.
The Path to Theocracy 169
Despite the poor showing of vouchers in public referenda and in state
legislatures, the persistent efforts of their proponents culminated in the
United States Supreme Court's decision to revisit the issue 30 years after its
last previous undertaking. In the case of Zelman v. Simmons-Harris654, at
the end of the 2002 judicial year, the Court concluded that vouchers were
constitutional in a 5 to 4 decision. This came about even though 96% of
the students involved in the Cleveland program were attending religious
schools, and 82% of the participating schools were religious. The majority
opined that the program did not intend to promote religion because the
religious schools were not the only option. Justice Sandra O'Connor, the
acknowledged swing vote, added that the public money assistance went to
individual students and not directly to religious institutions. The minority
opinion commented on the ongoing trend toward approving aid to
religious schools, in the process gutting the Establishment Clause and
weakening the wall of separation.655
Although there were positive elements to be found in the decision,
separationists had to come to grips with the fact that the issue of
constitutionality, at least for now, had been disarmed. The decision, as
expected, opened the flood gates in states and municipalities. Within two
months it was reported that legislators in as many as 20 states were gearing
to introduce voucher bills.656
Critics of the decision stressed the financial woes that would befall
public education, considering it unconscionable to allocate any public
money to religious institutions. They took solace in the fact that not all
voucher programs would pass constitutional muster. The majority opinion
suggested that future and existing programs would be struck down if they
provided incentives to pick religious schools over secular ones; failed to
provide genuine secular options; were not completely neutral toward
religion; delivered funds to religious schools in a manner other than the
independent choice of parents; and/or the purpose was to fund religious
schools.
The Zelman decision resurrected for consideration and discussion a
couple of earlier, seldom mentioned, Supreme Court decisions. In the 1973
Nyquist decision657, the voucher program was struck down because it
created incentives for parents to select religious schools instead of secular
ones, and it provided assistance only to children attending private schools.
Later in 1973, in the Sloan decision658, the Court disallowed another
program nearly identical to the one in Nyquist. The Zelman majority
discussion articulated that any voucher program must provide adequate
public and secular options to survive constitutional scrutiny.
170 The Fundamentals of Extremism
With the issue of constitutionality removed at the federal level,
voucher opponents turned their focus to the states. A review of state
constitutions revealed that in at least 37 of them there is language that bars
tax funds for sectarian institutions. In most of them, the critical language
resides within sections labeled "Blaine Amendments." As expected, these
sections have become targets of the radical religious right and other
voucher proponents, under the primary argument that they reflect
nineteenth century anti-Catholicism. The strategies for doing away with
the Blaine Amendments include "persuading state courts to interpret them
narrowly, having federal courts declare them in conflict with the First
Amendment, and persuading voters to repeal them through ballot
referenda.”659
It did not take long, after the Zelman decision, for a court in Florida to
declare the state's existing voucher program unconstitutional.660 Though
technically statewide, it was operational only in Pensacola and involved
only approximately 50 students. It was found to be in violation of Article I,
Section 3, of the Florida Constitution. It states that, "No revenue of the
state or any political subdivision or agency thereof shall ever be taken from
the public treasury directly or indirectly in aid of any church, sect or
religious denomination, or in aid of any sectarian institution." It is only a
matter of time before this case, or a similar one from another state, is tested
before the United States Supreme Court.
Two publications from the group Americans for Religious Liberty
have exposed the activities of fundamentalist Christian schools and the
related home schooling movement.661 They show how the
fundamentalists’ primary educational goal is to protect their youth from the
diversity of contemporary American society. Fundamentalist texts promote
sectarianism, religious intolerance, anti-intellectualism, disdain for critical
thinking and science, and conservative political extremism. If the
American populace were made aware of what is going on, the sociopolitical
opposition to school vouchers would rise sharply.
Educational taboo
The teaching of history has become a highly-charged debate topic.
Since history reflects change and development, often through conflict, it is
not surprising different factions view events differently or, at least, want
them to be depicted differently. By and large, history is still being
reenacted by the “winners,” those who survived and rose to control.
Nevertheless, the rest have become more vocal in promoting their
perspectives as well. Textbook publishers report increased pressure from
The Path to Theocracy 171
a rapidly-expanding number of interest groups. Resolution of the conflicts
and the ultimate choice of what gets presented and how is still controlled
by those in power. But cracks are beginning to appear in the once adamant
monolith. Conflict can also lead to the avoidance of a controversial issue.
This has been seen with the scientific theory of evolution, under attack by
ideologies threatened by its findings.
The First Amendment, and its corollary, the separation of church and
state, seem to be experiencing a similar fate as evolution. In some
instances, teachers and curricula have tended to avoid and minimize such
issues, in anticipation of controversy. Organizations interested in the
promotion and protection of the First Amendment such as Americans
United For Separation of Church and State, the American Civil Liberties
Union, and People For The American Way have become concerned, and
rightly so, with the low degree of awareness of the basic concepts among
both students and the public at large. Even politicians, during campaign
speeches and media interviews, tend to avoid the issue beyond vague
reassurances they support the separation of church and state. On specific
questioning, they often prove to be poorly informed. Or worse, they seem
to favor perspectives not in keeping with the secularity of the state.
Accordingly, many progressive organizations favor the creation of
educational materials and the related preparation of teachers. This is so the
Constitution and the Bill of Rights can be presented in a vibrant and
effective manner at different stages of the public school curriculum.
Although I strongly favor such efforts, I have come to recognize the
dilemma is thornier. The deficits are not going to be corrected simply by
better materials or more thorough lesson plans. As I travel and interact with
citizens around the country, I have concluded we live in at least two
disparate universes. More correctly, there exists a vast continuum and the
poles at either end are what this discussion is focusing on. At one end of
the continuum, we have multicultural, pluralistic settings like New York
City or Los Angeles. A child in that setting, unless artificially isolated, is
exposed to many ethnic and religious traditions. More importantly, the
child learns to interact, and be comfortable without sacrificing his or her
own identity. The child learns respecting and being respected is the name
of the game. He or she also learns there are areas and rules of common
exchange, which are different than, but not necessarily in conflict with, the
individual tradition of each member.
People who grow up in that milieu tend to be universal and tolerant.
The only problem, sometimes, is they have difficulty empathizing with the
prejudice and limited outlook of those who were not as fortunate as they
were in being exposed to diversity. In this context, the First Amendment
172 The Fundamentals of Extremism
does not need any undue promotion. Its precepts without formal
elaboration operate on a daily basis. In fact, they provide both the glue and
the solvent to render the society viable and productive. We know all too
painfully the price paid by everyone when the ingredients are not in the
mix. This has been seen in the Middle East, Northern Ireland, and the
Balkans.
At the other end of the spectrum, we have homogeneous, monolithic
situations. These are found in small and middle-sized communities in the
South and parts of the Midwest. In these enclaves, conformity is the norm,
and differences are viewed with suspicion and discomfort. There may be
minority members such as the Chinese-American family that runs the
downtown restaurant, a Jewish-American physician or merchant, or an
Asian-American government employee; but they are marginalized. They
are identified by their ethnicity. They are accepted or at least tolerated as
long as they do not push the invisible boundaries established for them.
Non-believers are viewed as even more on the fringe, and they often
choose to lie low to minimize conflict. In this context, the First
Amendment and the concept of separation of church and state seem so out
of place as to be irrelevant. Any attempt to bring them to the fore will result
in an aggressive response. The community will not take lightly to anything
perceived as a challenge to the status quo and its way of life. What is really
at issue is the fact that (their) religion and socio-political intercourse have
become hopelessly entangled. Any call for the review of basic principles
and assumptions is translated as an attack on their religious essence, and
such will not be tolerated. The following incident provides a dramatic
illustration.662
In Rhea County, Tennessee, Bible instruction had been going on for
fifty-one years in kindergarten through fifth grade in three elementary
public schools. The district ignored decades of Supreme Court precedents
against religious instruction in public schools. The program entitled “Bible
Education Ministry” was operated by students from Bryan College, a
Bible-based college founded after the Scopes trial. The program was
offered thirty minutes each week during regular school hours, without
parental consent.
The Freedom From Religion Foundation in April 2001, filed a federal
lawsuit on behalf of John Doe and Mary Roe, parents of children in the
school system, challenging the practice. Plaintiffs in such cases have
learned to remain incognito, given the anticipated backlash from the
community.
United States District Judge R. Allan Edgar concluded readily that the
practice was unconstitutional. He equated the classroom activities to what
The Path to Theocracy 173
might be found in “a Sunday school class in many of the Christian
churches in Rhea County.” He said, “the government, through its public
school system, may not teach, or allow the teaching of a distinct religious
viewpoint.” He concluded the Bible Education Ministry had “both the
purpose and effect to endorse and advance religion in public schools.”
Comparing the situation to the 1948 McCollum v. Board of Education
case, he commented the current matter represented an even stronger
violation of the Establishment Clause.
The town’s response is critical to understanding the complete
equation. The Rhea County School Board, encouraged by an angry crowd
of 300, voted unanimously to appeal the decision. A school board member
explained, “We want to teach our children that the Bible is the truth. Our
only course is an appeal.” A member of the audience called for the
impeachment of Judge Edgar, and another was even more emphatic,
proclaiming, “whoever took it [the Bible] out should be strung up.”
Thus, as illustrated so vividly, the protection and promotion of the
First Amendment are not easy tasks. It would be complex even under
relatively ideal conditions. As it is, we have a large segment of the
population for whom the success of this 200-year experiment has little
relevance. Worse, it stands as a barrier to the religious ideology which calls
for moving in the direction of a theocracy. In such a climate, the task of
imparting both the letter and the spirit of the law to succeeding generations
remains very challenging. In fact, the current intense tendency to bypass or
nullify the First Amendment may outweigh in effort and enthusiasm the
commitment among the rest of us to preserve it.
174
Chapter 7
INERRANCY TURNED POLITICAL
by Herb Silverman
I do guerrilla warfare, I paint my face and travel at night. You don’t know
it’s over until you’re in a body bag. You don’t know till election night.663
Ralph Reed
“Antidisestablishmentarianism” was the gold standard for those who
used to compete in spelling bees. It achieved its exalted status for
purportedly being the longest word in the English language. No one knew
or cared what it meant. If people thought about it at all, they probably
assumed any meaning attached to it had long since outlived its usefulness.
So what does the word mean, and why should anyone care? In the
nineteenth century, the Free or "Nonconformist" churches, that is, the non-
Anglican Protestant denominations in England, often sought to disestablish
the Church of England. Those who favored the Church of England were
called antidisestablishmentarians. The antis put down the rebellion of those
who sought separation of the English state from the English church.
In contrast, in 1776 the soon-to-be United States not only declared
independence from England, but also declared something even more
radical—that “Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just
powers from the consent of the governed.” Americans asserted the right of
the people to form their own government, one with limited powers. They
rejected kings crowned by bishops to rule through “divine right.” They had
no Church of the United States to disestablish.
However, the federal government did not initially prohibit states from
establishing their own state churches. Prior to the Constitutional
Convention of 1787, most states required their own pledges of allegiance
to Christianity, if not to a particular sect. Voting and office-holding
privileges were reserved only for members of the “correct” sect. Then
Article 6 passed unanimously at the Constitutional Convention, prohibiting
Inerrancy Turned Political 175
religious tests for federal office. Nearly all states soon followed the federal
lead.664
Nonetheless, there have always been people who falsely maintain that
the founders intended to establish a Christian nation. Some have tried to
pave the way to official establishment. For example, in 1941 a “Christian
Nation” amendment to the Constitution was introduced in Congress. It
stated explicitly that all laws of the United States should be subject to the
“Word of God and his son, Jesus Christ.”665 Though the proposed
amendment failed to pass in 1941, it has reappeared with regularity.
In the 1960s, John Anderson was elected to Congress on a platform
supporting the amendment, a position he subsequently repudiated when he
ran for president as a moderate in 1980.666 Most members of today’s
religious right see making the United States into some form of Christian
nation as a primary goal. However common the impulse to want others to
share one’s own beliefs, the Christian Right does more than desire it. They
believe God mandates them to accomplish this and that it is their duty to
obey.
During George Bush’s administration, former Assistant Attorney
General Charles J. Cooper, appointed during the Reagan years, argued in
the Supreme Court case, Lee v. Weisman 1991, concerning prayers at
middle-school graduations, “that the Constitution did not keep a state from
designating an official religion so long as no one was forced to practice”
it.667 The intent of the case was clear. It was an attempt to set precedents to
gravely change the secular face of states and, therefore, the face of
America.668 The notion of proclaiming an official religion that no one is
compelled to practice is fraught with danger. Nevertheless, it is a scene the
Christian Right tries to paint for those who may not favor forcing their
religion on others, but who would gladly have their own religion elevated
to such status.
Contrary to what many Americans believe, Christian fundamentalists
today have great political strength. To challenge the religious right, their
political goals must be understood, and the variety of tactics they employ
must be recognized. Americans must familiarize themselves with not only
the Christian Right’s well-publicized national achievements, but also their
large number of local political victories that affect states, counties, school
boards, and cities. By realizing the magnitude of the problem, citizens may
become energized enough to take action.
It is easy to minimize religious intrusion in others’ lives when people
are only aware of matters touching them directly. For example, it may be
176 The Fundamentals of Extremism
hard for most to fathom living in a state like Oklahoma, where all public
school biology textbooks must carry a disclaimer against evolutionary
theory, saying, “No one was present when life first appeared on Earth.
Therefore, any statement about life’s origins should be considered
theory.”669 However, violations such as this are taking place throughout
the country in neighboring states and communities.
The Christian Right cannot continue to be ignored with the hope they
will eventually tire. Their political strength stems in part from the anger
and resentment they hold toward a society that seems unable or unwilling
to recognize and accommodate their wishes. As Scott Appleby, associate
Professor of History at the University of Notre Dame, explains in The God
Squads, a tiny but influential minority is “mad as hell and not going to take
it anymore.”670 They are:
the North American Christians, mad about what they see as Biblebashing
liberalism in the mainline Protestant seminaries and
denominational bureaucracies, mad about indifference or hostility
toward Judeo-Christian values in the entertainment and news
media, mad about Supreme Court decisions banning prayer in
public schools, and mad about the social revolution led by radical
feminists.671
The following pages will describe the tactics some fundamentalist
leaders use to acquire political influence, and how the religious right has
politically maligned and impaired the American public school system. An
examination on the tensions within the religious right explores whether
political compromise can co-exist with a fundamentalist theology. I will
then relate my personal and political struggle with the religious right in my
home state of South Carolina. The chapter concludes by reviewing the
political objectives of the religious right, how they hope to achieve these
objectives, and how their tactics may effectively be countered.
Different lyrics, same tune
Why have so many fundamentalist religious leaders formed
politically-active organizations? Who are they, and how successful have
they been? To begin, consider the Reconstructionists, arguably the most
fanatical of the Christian Right groups. According to them, says William
Martin, author of With God on Our Side, “Christians have a mandate to
rebuild . . . all of human society,” and “they contend that the Bible . . .
Inerrancy Turned Political 177
offers the perfect blueprint for the shape a reconstructed world should
take.”672
Reconstructionists are also known as Dominionists, as in Genesis
1:28, which calls on them to: “Fill the Earth and subdue it and have
dominion over every living thing that moves upon the Earth.”673 As
“agents of God’s unfolding plan,” they are working to establish a
theonomy, or “rule of God,” which leaves no room for toleration of other
points of view.674 According to Martin, “a theonomic order would make
homosexuality, adultery, blasphemy, propagation of false doctrine, and
incorrigible behavior by disobedient children subject to the death penalty,
preferably administered by stoning.”675 Since these ethical principles
reflect the will of an immutable God, Reconstructionists reason, they apply
to all people, in every era. R.J. Rushdoony, the founding father of
Reconstructionism, regards pluralism as a heresy, since “in the name of
toleration, the believer is asked to associate on a common level of total
acceptance with the atheist, the pervert, the criminal, and the adherents of
other religions.”676
Frankly, it is highly unlikely that Reconstructionists will suddenly
seize political power. Their ideas are simply too extreme. Leaders of the
religious right have been cautious about showing any interest in this radical
movement. Still, Reconstructionists have clearly been influential.
Fundamentalist ministers Jerry Falwell and D. James Kennedy have
endorsed Reconstructionist books. An anonymous member of the religious
right undoubtedly spoke for many when he confessed, “Though we hide
their books under the bed, we read them just the same.”677 While most
religious right activists have discarded the more unpalatable aims of
Reconstructionists, they have embraced their underlying theory that the
Bible provides a blueprint for running government. Jay Grimstead, leader
of the Coalition on Revival, expressed the sentiment of many conservative
Christian leaders when he argued that while they may not be in full support
of a theonomy, it is still their desire to rebuild a Bible-based America.678
Conservative Christians, who for much of American history cared
more about saving souls than electing politicians, were galvanized to
political action in the 1970s. The Supreme Court’s 1973 Roe v. Wade
abortion decision may well have triggered that turning point. In 1979
Reverend Jerry Falwell, a Southern Baptist televangelist, formed the Moral
Majority. This religious right organization held the view that American
morality was lost and must be found. Falwell urged Christians to uphold
178 The Fundamentals of Extremism
their moral duty by endorsing political candidates with conservative
religious beliefs and traditional patriotic values.
In his book, Listen America!, written to articulate the new
organization’s rationale and purpose, Falwell characterized the Moral
Majority as “pro-life, pro-family, pro-moral, and pro-American.”679 In
particular, Falwell listed abortion, pornography, homosexuality, divorce,
and secular humanism as the major evils threatening America. He urged
Christians to learn how government works, from the precincts to the
presidency, and then to contact public officials. Falwell, himself, claimed
to have previously struggled and resisted political involvement. He had
criticized other ministers who had participated in the civil rights
movement. However, Falwell changed his mind, he says, because:
I never thought the government would go so far afield, I never
thought the politicians would become so untrustworthy, I never
thought the courts would go so nuts on the left. We have defaulted
by failing to show up for the fight.680
Falwell’s political involvement through the Moral Majority often
consisted of sending out incendiary fundraising letters. In one reporting
that gays had been granted permission to lay a wreath in Arlington
Cemetery, Falwell referred to changing the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier
into “The Tomb of the Unknown Sodomite!”681 Another of his favorite
tactics was sending provocative questionnaires to be answered and
returned by supporters, along with a donation. He then sent the responses
to members of Congress. Typical of the slanted questions was: “Do you
approve of American flags being burned in liberal and radical anti-
American demonstrations?”682 No distinction was made between approval
of an act and approval of the right to political dissent. Nor was any nuance
evident in questions about unisex bathrooms, selling pornography to
children, and banning any form of prayer in school.
Although the Moral Majority may not have had the strength it often
claimed (some would say that the Moral Majority was neither moral nor a
majority), it paved the way for other organizations. The Moral Majority
died in 1989, after playing a critical role in politicizing religious
conservatives. What did religious right leaders learn from Jerry Falwell’s
mistakes with the Moral Majority? In Close Encounters with the Religious
Right, Rob Boston points out that Falwell seemed to believe he could
change America from the top down. After helping elect Ronald Reagan to
the presidency in 1980, Falwell sat back and waited for all he wanted to be
handed to him.683 Now, most religious right leaders see the way to bring
Inerrancy Turned Political 179
about real change is from the bottom up. Accordingly, they focus on local
politics as well as state and federal races.
Enter the Christian Coalition. Born in 1989 under the leadership of Pat
Robertson, the organization was by no means a mere reincarnation of the
Moral Majority. It was well financed and media savvy. From its inception,
Stephen L. Carter, author of God’s Name in Vain , said:
the Christian Coalition has been a force in the Republican Party.
With its member churches, its ability to drum up letter-writing
campaigns as well as votes, and its stated goal of training 10
political activists in every electoral district, of any size, in the
United States—a projected 1.75 million activists—it has been, for
many conservative candidates, a welcome source of energy and
on-the ground-troops . . . and a group nobody wants to have as an
enemy.684
According to Rob Boston, assistant director of communications for the
organization Americans United for Separation of Church and State, the:
Christian Coalition spends most of its money and efforts on state
and local politics. The group is seeking to take over the
Republican Party from the ground up and has been extremely
successful in some counties and states. The group is a continual
headache for GOP moderates striving to return the party to a more
centrist position.685
Pat Robertson’s views are anything but centrist. As a presidential
candidate in 1988, he predicted:
When the Christian majority takes over this country, there will be
no satanic churches, no more free distribution of pornography, no
more abortion on demand and no more talk of rights for
homosexuals. After the Christian majority takes control, pluralism
will be seen as immoral and evil and the state will not permit
anybody to practice it.686
Robertson lost the 1988 Republican presidential nomination to George
Bush, but he was an honored guest at the Bush inauguration. On the last
evening of inaugural festivities, Robertson received the “Man of the Year”
180 The Fundamentals of Extremism
award from a conservative college political organization known as
Students for America. Robertson shared the platform with the group’s
founder and president, a young man named Ralph Reed. This encounter
proved fortuitous for both men. Impressed by Reed’s political acumen and
religious convictions, and by sophistication unusual for someone only
twenty-eight years old, Robertson appointed Reed the executive director of
the Christian Coalition.
The young and wholesome-looking Reed painted a kinder, gentler,
and less-threatening public image of the Christian Coalition than had
Robertson. Reed was a frequent guest on television talk shows. Without
using the divisive “Christian nation” rhetoric of Robertson, Reed
emphasized that it was important for religious conservatives to get
involved in the electoral process.687 In 1990, under Reed’s leadership, the
Christian Coalition distributed 750,000 “voter guides” in North Carolina
just before Election Day. Subsequently, Reed took some of the credit for
Jesse Helms’ reelection to the Senate. The Christian Coalition also had
their troops swamp key senators with phone calls in support of Supreme
Court nominee Clarence Thomas during his confirmation hearing in
1991.688 The pragmatic Ralph Reed found out, perhaps with mixed
emotions, the extent to which Christian conservatives dominated the 1992
Republican National Convention, as Vice President Dan Quayle called out
to a roomful of delegates, “Who do you trust?” Reed expected to hear
“George Bush.” But the delegates yelled back, “Jesus!”689
In 1994, Quayle spoke at an event hosted by televangelist D. James
Kennedy. The participants recited a pledge of allegiance—but not the one
familiar to most Americans. This pledge said: “I pledge allegiance to the
Christian flag, and to the Savior, for whose Kingdom it stands, One Savior,
crucified, risen and coming again, with life and liberty for all who
believe.”690
After a string of successes, Reed stepped into one of his few public
relations disasters when he described the tactics he used to achieve political
victory: “I do guerrilla warfare, I paint my face and travel at night. You
don’t know it’s over until you’re in a body bag. You don’t know till
election night.”691 This comment clearly represented Reed’s philosophy.
During the 1992 campaign, he told the Montana Christian Coalition to
heed the advice of ancient Chinese philosopher Sun Tzu: “The first
strategy, and in many ways the most important strategy, is secrecy. . . .
We’re involved in a war. It’s not a war fought with bullets, it’s a war
fought with ballots.”692
The frequent use of military metaphors by many Christian Coalition
leaders made it easy for journalists and critics to associate the
Inerrancy Turned Political 181
organization with a warlike character. Shortly after the 1992 election of
Bill Clinton, Reed wrote a memo to Christian Coalition leaders
recommending they substitute sports metaphors for war metaphors.693 But
there was no indication the Christian Coalition intended to drop its stealth
tactics. The religious right knew their extreme views on issues like
abortion, birth control, and public education were not mainstream. They
could not win elections in moderate communities by trumpeting the beliefs
that energized their base. Antonio Rivera, a New York Christian Coalition
political advisor, described this stealth strategy in 1992: “You keep your
personal views to yourself until the Christian community is ready to rise
up, and then wow! They’re gonna be devastated.”694
In 1995, Reed met with Republican presidential nominee Bob Dole,
who welcomed the Coalition’s Contract with the American Family, the
official public platform of the Christian Coalition. Referred to as a “family
values” contract, it was loaded with religiously intrusive proposals. One
was the Religious Equality Amendment, which stated:
Nothing in this Constitution shall be interpreted to prohibit the
citizens of the United States from practicing religion in public
places nor to prohibit the states from facilitating the practice of
religion by their citizens.695
Allowing states to facilitate religion, however, would chip deeply into
the wall between church and state. The Contract was also criticized for
promoting secular issues that appeared to be simply conservative in nature,
rather than Christian. Reed defended goals of lowering tax rates and the
federal budget deficit by saying religious conservatives linked to the
Christian Coalition care about such matters.696 And Robertson did not hide
his goal of having the Christian Coalition take over the Republican Party.
When told in 1995 that the Coalition was dominant in about half the states
and had a significant presence in many others, Robertson urged that more
work needed to be done. He insisted, “I want 100 percent.”697
Ever since its inception, questions had been raised about whether the
overt political involvement of the Christian Coalition was at odds with the
organization’s tax-exempt status. Rob Boston argued against the taxexempt
designation. He said the Coalition was “essentially a far-right
political action committee dedicated to getting the most conservative
Republicans possible elected to public office.”698
182 The Fundamentals of Extremism
At one strategy session when Robertson laid out plans for how the
Coalition could elect Republicans, Robertson knew his comments were
not strictly aboveboard. He quipped, “If there’s any press here, would you
please shoot yourself?”699 Americans United obtained a taped copy of the
remark and turned it over to the Internal Revenue Service. Shortly
thereafter, in June of 1999, the IRS denied the Christian Coalition taxexempt
status. However, on July 2, “six right-wing Republican senators
wrote to Attorney General Janet Reno,” reports Boston, “and demanded
that she launch a criminal investigation of Americans United for allegedly
trying to intimidate religious voters.”700
Lately, the Christian Coalition has lost some of its influence, especially
following the resignation of Executive Director Ralph Reed in 1997. But
the organization continues to be active. The coalition moved its national
headquarters from Virginia to Washington D.C. as part of its strategy. In
the year 2000, Robertson claimed the Coalition distributed 70 million voter
guides during national elections.701 On July 5, 2000, the Charleston
Gazette reported Pat Robertson had joined Jerry Falwell in his “$18.6
million drive to mobilize 35 million Bible-believing Christians to elect
George W. Bush president.”702
Both Falwell and Robertson have influenced countless numbers of
Americans through media saturation, but they have both opened
themselves up to ridicule with periodic outlandish statements that might
play well only to Christian conservatives. Jewish groups took umbrage
when on January 14, 1999, Falwell told a group of pastors in Kingsport,
Tennessee, that the Antichrist is Jewish, and probably walking the earth
today.703 Falwell said, “Is he alive and here today? Probably, because
when he appears during the Tribulation period, he will be a full-grown
counterfeit of Christ. Of course, he’ll be Jewish. Of course he’ll pretend to
be Christ.”704
However theologically justified these views are to Falwell and others
in the religious right, such pronouncements prove troublesome when
seeking political support from a more mainstream audience. Two days
after the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the New York World
Trade Center, Robertson told Falwell, who appeared on Robertson’s 700
Club:
We have allowed rampant secularism and occult, etc., to be
broadcast on television. We have permitted somewhere in the
neighborhood of 35 to 40 million unborn babies to be slaughtered
in our society. We have a court that has essentially stuck its finger
in God’s eye and said we’re going to legislate you out of the
Inerrancy Turned Political 183
schools. We’re going to take your commandments from off the
courthouse steps in various states. We’re not going to let little
children read the commandments of God. We’re not going to let
the Bible be read, no prayer in our schools. We have insulted God
at the highest levels of our government. And then we say, ‘why
does this happen?’ It is happening because God Almighty is
lifting His protection from us.705
This comment tarnished Falwell’s reputation even among Christian
conservatives. People noted how these words could just as easily have
come from the lips of Osama bin Laden.
To the amusement of many, Pat Robertson has no problem mixing
theology with meteorology. In a “700 Club” program in 1985, he ordered,
in the name of Jesus, Hurricane Gloria to turn away from the Virginia
coastline and head to the Northeast. The hurricane did eventually move
away from Virginia—and whacked Long Island. In 1995, while running
for the presidency, Robertson proudly pronounced the incident as
extremely important to his political plans, “because I felt that if I couldn’t
move a hurricane, I could hardly move a nation.”706
Not as well known as Falwell or Robertson, but considerably more
polished, is James Dobson, founder of Focus on the Family. Although a
radio psychologist, his daily program generates substantial political
activity. As Boston observes, “Dobson’s views are just as extreme, but he
presents them in a non-threatening, ‘family-friendly’ package.”707 While
Robertson and Falwell earn high negatives in public opinion polls,
respondents regard Dobson as a kind, gentle, indulgent uncle.
In 1999, the Focus on the Family radio show was aired 18,000 times a
week in more than 4,000 facilities. It reached an audience estimated to
exceed five million listeners.708 Dobson is clearly the radio version of Pat
Robertson. In addition, Dobson’s fourteen books have sold more than
sixteen million copies, and his organization publishes ten different
magazines and newsletters. Moreover, Dobson knows exactly how to
wield his power, by threatening to pull out of the Republican Party if the
party leaders do not meet his demands.
In a letter circulated to supporters on April 3, 1998, Dobson ordered it
was time for the Republicans to “fish or cut bait,” and added:
They have to understand that we will abandon them if they
continue to ignore the most important issues. The threat must be
184 The Fundamentals of Extremism
real for us to have integrity, and I am determined to deliver on the
promises to campaign against them if nothing changes. But I’m
praying that won’t be necessary.709
The following month top GOP leaders established a “Values Action
Team” to report weekly to Dobson and other religious right leaders.710
The Family Research Council (FRC), founded in 1983 by Gary
Bauer, serves as the political wing of Focus on the Family. John M.
Swomley, Professor emeritus of Social Ethics at St. Paul School of
Theology, examined the danger posed by the FRC. He explained this body
“was purposely designed to keep Dobson one step removed from direct
political involvement ” to protect the tax-exempt status of Focus on the
Family.711 The FRC is a Washington-based group, while Focus on the
Family maintains chapters in some state capitals where they can center on
grassroots organizing. Like Pat Robertson in 1988, Gary Bauer attempted
unsuccessfully to become the Republican presidential nominee in 2000.
What kind of candidate does Dobson, who heads a “nonpolitical”
organization, overtly support? Consider abortion opponent Randall Terry,
for one. When Terry sought to win the GOP nomination for a
Congressional seat in New York in 1998, Dobson endorsed him, saying, “I
wish we had a dozen more like him in Congress.”712 Terry is an extreme
anti-abortionist who called pro-choice Supreme Court justices “enemies of
Christ.” He compared them to Hitler and Stalin. As was pointed out in a
previous chapter, at a training session for those willing to harass and
threaten women’s clinic employees, Terry said, “Intolerance is a beautiful
thing. We’re going to make [abortionists’] lives a living hell.”713
Dobson, himself, is not known for tolerance, and he has even attacked
the Girl Scouts for promoting “humanism and radical feminism.” The
cause of his wrath? Delegates at the 1994 Girl Scout convention,
recognizing the diversity of their organization, voted overwhelmingly to
make a reference to God optional in the organization’s oath. The Girl
Scouts did not drop the oath; they simply wanted to make girls of all
backgrounds feel welcome to join.714
Thus far we have focused exclusively on religious right Protestants,
who are disproportionately associated with white evangelical churches
such as the Assemblies of God and the Southern Baptist Convention.
Many of these groups do not consider Roman Catholics to be true
Christians, and Catholics have been understandably reluctant to ally with
Protestants of the religious right. In fact, they have frequently been bitter
enemies.
Inerrancy Turned Political 185
In the nineteenth century, many Catholics were opposed to Bible
reading in public schools, at least to the passages usually selected.
Catholics objected to the Protestant version of the “Lord’s Prayer,” which
differed from the similar Catholic prayer known as the “Our Father.” In
1859, an eleven-year-old child of Catholic parents in Boston was beaten
for refusing to read the Ten Commandments from the King James Bible.
He knew his Catholic Douay Bible had a different version. The teacher
was taken to court, but the judge dismissed all charges.715 Also, in 1843, a
three-day riot erupted in Philadelphia. The city’s board of education had
allowed Catholic children either to be excused from mandatory religious
exercises or to use their own version of the Bible. In response, furious
Protestants burned Catholic churches and even homes. Thirteen people
were killed.716
These incidents eventually led Catholics to establish their own private
schools to avoid religious coercion through the tyranny of the majority.
Consequently, it is ironic that some conservative Catholics have joined the
contemporary movement for a school prayer amendment, which would
make other groups feel just as uncomfortable as they once felt.
Even so, mandatory school prayer is not the most energizing issue on
which conservative Catholics and Protestants agree. Their passions
intensify over opposition to abortion. With this in mind, in 1975 Catholic
bishops organized an ambitious political campaign to take control of
judicial seats, Congress, state, and national political offices. According to
Catholic writer Timothy A. Byrnes, twenty major Catholic organizations
participated in this effort. The focus of the Catholic campaign was to gain
enough Supreme Court seats to reverse Roe v. Wade. Their plan stated:
“Efforts should be made to reverse the decision, to restrain lower courts
from interpreting and applying [Supreme Court decisions] more
aggressively and more absolutely than the Supreme Court.”717 This
campaign gained strength during the Reagan and Bush years. Even as late
as 1998, after six years of the Clinton administration, more than seventy
percent of federal judges and at least four Supreme Court justices were
anti-abortion.718
Just as conservative Protestants learned to make effective use of the
media, so did conservative Catholics. The Catholic League for Religious
and Civil Rights is one of the most misnamed and determined
organizations of the religious right. Its main objective is to protect the
Catholic Church, the Vatican, and the papacy from “activity, language,
speech, publication, or media presentation” the League might consider
186 The Fundamentals of Extremism
offensive.719 William Donohue, the Catholic League’s leader, has opposed
freedom of speech and the press, women’s and gay rights, and affirmative
action.720 The Catholic League claims “the support of all the U.S. cardinals
and many of the bishops.”721
Canon 1369 of the Code of Canon Law justifies the Catholic League’s
existence:
A person is to be punished with a just penalty, who, at a public
event or assembly, or in published writing, or by otherwise using
the means of social communication, utters blasphemy, or gravely
harms public morals, or rails at or excites hatred or contempt for
religion or the Church.722
Donohue revealed the secret of the Catholic League’s success in its
December 1995 issue of the journal Catalyst. He wrote:
We specialize in public embarrassment of public figures who
have earned our wrath and that is why we are able to win so many
battles: no person or organization wants to be publicly
embarrassed, and that is why we specialize in doing exactly
that.723
The Catholic League has attacked many news programs, newspapers,
and other media sources for being even the least critical of the Pope or
Catholic Church. It has gotten Ann Landers’ advice column dropped from
a newspaper, and national advertisers dropped from television stations. As
Rob Boston put it, the Catholic League exists, “primarily to scream bloody
murder any time anyone dares to criticize the political goals of the Roman
Catholic Church.”724
In fact, a tactic employed by most religious right groups is to decry
“anti-Christian bigotry” when there is any criticism of their goals. The
technique has effectively energized their base, whether or not they really
believe the charge. This could be one of the reasons for increased
attendance at Protestant evangelical churches across the U.S., while
attendance at mainline Protestant churches has decreased. With
evangelicals and Catholics joining forces on issues like abortion, the
religious right has become politically stronger than the religious left.725
“Saving” public schools
Inerrancy Turned Political 187
When and why did public education become the whipping boy of the
religious right? In the 1960s, the Supreme Court ruled against permitting
Bible reading in public schools and mandated racial integration in public
schools. Conservative Protestants, unlike Catholics, did not have an
established parochial school system. Primarily to evade court-ordered
requirements for public schools, private schools began to open in the
South. Although the religious right wanted prayer in public schools, there
were many things they wanted out, including sex education, drug
education, evolution, and so-called pornographic books.
In Holy Terror: The Fundamentalist War on America’s Freedoms in
Religion, Politics and Our Private Lives, Conway and Siegelman argue,
“Many parents saw in fundamentalist schools a way to shield their children
from a changing world—as they were trying to shield themselves.”726 The
authors suggest that for the religious right, “the most dangerous substances
in public schools are ideas, specifically any notions that violate their
unbending interpretation of the Bible.”727
One of the most ludicrous comments during the Vietnam War was in
an Associated Press story filed by Peter Arnett about the Tet offensive of
1968. He quoted an unnamed American major as saying, ''It became
necessary to destroy the town in order to save it.''728 This “nothing is worse
than communism” belief coincides with the “nothing is worse than public
schools” belief of many within the religious right. Jerry Falwell remarked
he was “looking forward to the day when all schooling in America is run
by churches.”729
Howard Philips, during his 1992 presidential campaign as the
candidate of the U.S. Taxpayers Party (now known as the Constitution
Party), attacked the idea of public education because “inevitably
government conveys anti-Christian premises about the nature of God and
man.”730 And Reconstructionist author Gary North explained the
importance of destroying public schools. “Until the vast majority of
Christians pull their children out of the public schools,” North pointed out,
“there will be no possibility of creating a theocratic republic.”731
The religious right would like to “save” our schools (pun intended) by
providing vouchers for parents who wish to send their children to private
schools. Since the vast majority of private schools are religious, the
vouchers would primarily support church-run schools. Voucher
proponents argue public schools would become more efficient and
responsive to the needs of the children if they had to compete with private
schools for tax dollars. But besides violations of state-church separation,
188 The Fundamentals of Extremism
adoption of this policy would seriously erode the limited amount of
funding available for public schools. In addition, competition works best
only when playing fields are level. Private schools may select students,
while public schools must accept all the expensive-to-educate children
with special needs. The voucher plank has become a fixture of Republican
Party platforms through many presidential election conventions.732
Besides advocating vouchers, the Christian Coalition’s 1996 Contract
with the American Family called for a Parental Rights Act to “reaffirm
parents’ right to direct the education, medical care, discipline, and religious
upbringing of their children.”733 What are the implications of this
innocuous-sounding contract? Religious right activists could effectively
prevent public school teachers from using critically acclaimed books that a
minority of parents deemed pornographic or too controversial. Medical
care related to school could mean “abstinence only” programs would
represent the entire sex education curriculum. Condoms would be
mentioned only to emphasize their failure rates, and they would be
unavailable to sexually active students. Absolute parental right to discipline
could be offered as a “spare the rod, spoil the child” justification for child
abuse. And parents might be granted the right to withhold medical
treatment from children with diabetes and other deadly illnesses.
Permitting prayer in public schools is high on the religious right
agenda. Of course, students are allowed to pray silently in public schools.
Wherever tests are taken, you are likely to find students praying. (Though
prayer may be perfectly permissible, most teachers would agree that
studying is more effective!) Not allowed are government-sponsored
prayers. Yet millions of people continue to believe students are prohibited
from ever praying while on school grounds.
Rob Boston says myths persist about children being scolded by
teachers and hauled to the principal’s office in disgrace for saying a prayer
over lunch. Pat Robertson mentioned such a story about five-year old
“Shannon” in Kingsville, Texas on his December 4, 1992, “700 Club”
television program. Local reporters looked into the case. They could not
even find a girl named Shannon at the school. When confronted,
Robertson had no evidence. Boston added, “The religious right has failed
to produce one bona fide instance of a violation of a student’s right to pray
in public schools.”734
To listen to the religious right, all hell broke loose after the Supreme
Court took God out of the classroom in 1963, when the court ruled
government-sponsored prayers were unconstitutional. People who claim
this court decision led to a rise in violence, drug addiction, and other
societal ills, would benefit from taking an elementary statistics course.
Inerrancy Turned Political 189
There they will learn to distinguish between correlation and causation. No
one disputes, for example, the high correlation between students with
matches in their shirt pockets and students who develop lung cancer thirty
years later. However, should it be deduced that matches in shirt pockets
cause lung cancer? Can anything be concluded from the increase in drug
abuse since 1954, when the words “under God” were added to the Pledge
of Allegiance?
The Supreme Court decision banning government-sponsored prayer
in public schools may have energized the religious right, but sanctioned
prayer in public schools was never as widespread as they would have us
believe. In a 1960 survey, two years before the first prayer case reached the
U.S. Supreme Court, only five states had laws requiring daily Bible
reading in public school. In twenty-five states, Bible reading was optional
and in eleven, government-sponsored Bible reading was unconstitutional.
The remaining states had no laws on the books one way or the other.735
Proposed school prayer amendments have periodically been
introduced in Congress. In 1982, President Reagan supported an
amendment for “voluntary” school prayer. A White House briefing paper
explained: “States and communities would be free to select prayers that
have already been written, or they could compose their own prayers.”736
Though a majority of senators favored the amendment, it did not receive
the necessary two-thirds endorsement. A 1998 school prayer amendment
also fell short of the needed two-thirds majority.737 Practically speaking, it
is easier to change local public schools through local school board action
than through national legislation. Locally is where the “tyranny of the
majority” can be most effective. This is why Ralph Reed of the Christian
Coalition has talked about school board seats being more important than
congressional seats.738
Rob Boston points out some frightening statements by elected school
board members. A La Mesa/Spring Valley, California, school board
member in 1990 said, “We want to have it like it was 100 years ago, when
God, the Ten Commandments and prayer was the focus of the schools.”739
A Vista, California, school board member in 1992 told the Wall Street
Journal she thought public school teachers should tell students about
Christ and lead them in religious exercises. She went on to say, “It would
be wonderful to see the scripture read in schools so that children learn the
truth. This is our heritage. Anyone who comes into this country is
welcome, but we shouldn’t be diluted [sic] by others’ beliefs.”740
190 The Fundamentals of Extremism
There are also back-door attempts to proselytize unsuspecting
students. Benny Proffitt, president of First Priority of America, has been
working to establish religious clubs in public schools. Under his plan, local
churches join forces to train students and fund their activities. Using the
Equal Access Act to gain a foothold in schools, students are instructed to
seek converts and regularly report the number of conversions to First
Priority. According to Proffitt, there are 3,000 such schools spread over
200 communities. These schools seem to be in violation of the Equal
Access Act, which states, “non-school persons may not direct, conduct,
control, or regularly attend activities of student groups.”741 Legal
organizations like the American Center for Law and Justice, a group
related to Pat Robertson, and the conservative Rutherford Institute,
regularly send representatives to address school boards and “explain” the
rights of students to engage in religious activities in public schools.
According to Boston:
These missives are designed to intimidate school officials with
threats of lawsuits, while the legal ‘advice’ they contain is really
designed to circumvent Supreme Court decisions on issues like
state-sponsored prayer in public schools.742
Enter science into the political and educational arena. Arguments
about possible conflicts between science and religion are as old as science,
itself. Fundamentalists 500 years ago found Biblical justification to insist
that the Earth was flat; 400 years ago, they kept an unmoved Earth at the
center of the universe; and 100 years ago, they tried to replace the irrational
number pi (the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter) with
the more Biblically justified whole number 3. [I Kings 7:23]
Today, fundamentalists attack the teaching of evolution in our public
schools, calling it only a “theory.” However, it is important to realize
scientists do not use the word theory the way laymen do in casual
conversation, as in “I have a theory that . . . .” Scientists elevate a
hypothesis or conjecture to theory status only after a system of
assumptions, accepted principles, and rules of procedure are devised to
analyze, predict, or otherwise explain specific phenomena. Well over
ninety-nine percent of all biologists agree there is substantial
documentation that life forms change over long periods. They agree
current forms of life have arisen from previous forms and that fossils
represent the remains of creatures living in the distant past.
Despite what the religious right would have us believe, the theory of
evolution is not controversial within the scientific community. It is
Inerrancy Turned Political 191
backed by our best scientific minds, including the 2,000 members of the
National Academy of Sciences, with more than 160 Nobel Prize winners
among them. The National Association of Biology Teachers, comprised of
more than 8,000 science educators and scientists, states on its web site:
“Nothing in biology makes sense except in the light of evolution.”743
Refinements and additional insights are certainly needed to complete
the theory of evolution. Still, reputable scientists readily accept its basic
framework. Evolution is as established as the theory of gravity, which will
also require significant breakthroughs to understand completely. Gravity,
however, has not become politicized. If evolution were replaced with
“creation science,” fossils would be seen as the remains of Noah's flood
and geologic time would be viewed as a scientific delusion. Physicists
would also have to dismiss the concept of a constant speed of light, since
under the creationist idea, the Earth and universe are only 6,000 years old.
The measurement of the distance light travels in a year indicates the Earth
is approximately 4.6 billion years old, and the universe is approximately 15
billion.
The religious right has waged a long and, unfortunately, successful
media campaign to mold public perception about the theory of evolution.
A significant number of Americans think it either should not be taught in
our public schools, or should be taught along with so-called “Scientific
Creationism.” But science is not democratic. If a million people believe a
wrong thing, it is still a wrong thing. Scientific Creationism is an
alternative to Zeus or Krishna, not to Darwin. “Creation science” should
no more be taught as an alternative to evolution than should the “stork
theory” be taught as an alternative to reproduction.
The religious right’s condemnation of evolution has managed to
frighten and confuse so many educators and administrators, some public
schools now avoid the subject of evolution. They seek to dodge the
controversy, or use textbooks limiting evolution to a mere paragraph or
two. Boston says, “Creationists are responsible for the dumbing down of
an entire generation of American students and have done great damage to
science education in this country.”744 I do not doubt the sincerity of
creationists. They want the whole truth and nothing but the truth taught in
the classroom, just as evolutionists do. As Carter points out, “For
evangelicals in particular, all the Bible is encompassed within a single
heading, and that heading is truth.”745 But this version of “truth” is not
science, and it has no place in a science curriculum.
192 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Our society empowers parents to raise their children as they wish, so
long as they do not inflict serious damage. Courts often have trouble
determining when the parental right to use punishment as discipline
crosses the line into physical or emotional abuse. Although children are
required to partake in some kind of schooling, parents are granted much
latitude on this matter. They can home-school their children or send them
to fundamentalist schools, where students may hear the theory of evolution
defined as a belief that humans are nothing but "rearranged pond scum."746
I find it painful as an educator to see any student complete school
without studying even the rudiments of the theory of evolution. The desire
by fundamentalists to also prevent public school children from learning
about evolution is potentially the most harmful thing they can do to society
as a whole. I want to thank British scientist Richard Dawkins for informing
me about Nicholas Humphrey's excellent essay titled "What Shall We Tell
the Children?"747 In it, Humphrey argues that society has a duty to protect
children from ignorant and bigoted parents who sabotage their children's
right to the best education available.
Today we may be astounded by the scientifically illiterate geocentric
battles of the Middle Ages. Future generations likely will look back with
equal amazement at our twenty-first century "evolution battles."
The art of religious politics
Politics is the art of negotiation and compromise, while
fundamentalism espouses an uncompromising and absolutist worldview.
So it makes sense to wonder how deeply imbedded in politics can or
should fundamentalists become. We will consider the divisions between
the pragmatists and the purists within the religious right over whether to
focus on the practical politics of this world, or the saving of souls for the
next. The case of former President Ronald Reagan offers a good starting
point.
On the surface, Republican candidate Reagan does not seem to be the
kind of person the religious right would have enthusiastically supported for
the 1980 presidency. He was divorced. He had been, for the most part, an
absentee father whose grown children were unlikely role models for those
trumpeting “family values.” As governor of California, Reagan had signed
liberal abortion bills and opposed legislation that would have barred gays
from teaching in public schools. He achieved prominence as a Hollywood
actor and had not even been a regular churchgoer. Moreover, he was
running against incumbent President Jimmy Carter, a born-again Southern
Baptist Sunday school teacher.
Inerrancy Turned Political 193
Reagan benefited from an approach exercised in a previously
successful Republican campaign. Richard Nixon had become president in
1968 largely through a “Southern strategy” that had applied divisive racial
politics to convince George Wallace Democrats to vote for a Republican.
Sidney Blumenthal, in describing the “religious right” Republican strategy
employed against Carter in 1979, said Reagan used social issues to
separate the evangelicals, mostly Southern Baptists, from their traditional
allegiance to the Democratic Party.748
This tactic scored a major victory at the Southern Baptist Convention
of 1979. Morton Blackwell and Ed McAteer, Republican Party operatives,
had cooperated with fundamentalist forces to engineer “a stunning
takeover of the nation’s largest Protestant denomination.”749 The takeover
was designed to bring Southern Baptists into the Republican Party.
According to Appleby, fundamentalists replaced moderates in seminaries
and missionary boards. They focused their attention on the Republican
Party at local, state, and national levels.750
The communication skills that Reagan, the actor, had developed so
effectively in Hollywood also helped Reagan, the politician. While
campaigning on August 21, 1979, at the National Affairs Briefing in
Dallas, a convention bringing together some of the leading conservative
political and religious figures, Reagan declared, “You can’t endorse me,
but I can endorse you.”751 This struck a unique chord, explained Ed
Dobson, a close aid to Jerry Falwell:
I don’t think people understand that the average fundamentalist
felt alienated from mainstream American culture. That was a
significant moment, because the candidate came to us; we didn’t
go to the candidate.752
At a press conference that same day, Reagan urged that the Biblical
story of creation be taught in public schools as an alternative to the theory
of evolution. He claimed evolution was increasingly discredited by
scientists. Reagan also complained that the Supreme Court had “expelled
God from the classroom,” and noted “everybody in favor of abortion had
already been born.”753 Another speaker at this convention was Dr. Bailey
Smith, newly-elected president of the Southern Baptist Convention. He
made no pretense of tolerance when he proclaimed: “God Almighty does
not hear the prayer of a Jew.” His explanation afterward was that he did
194 The Fundamentals of Extremism
not mean his statement to be anti-Semitic—he was just as intolerant of
Muslims, Buddhists and Hindus! Smith said:
For how in the world can God hear the prayer of a man who says
that Jesus Christ is not the true Messiah? That is blasphemy. It
may be politically expedient, but no one can pray unless he prays
through the name of Jesus Christ.754
The elation felt by evangelicals over the election of President Reagan
in 1980 soon lost some of its luster. In a meeting with religious ministers in
1979, Reagan had promised that the number of evangelical Christians in
his administration would be proportional to their strength in the
population.755 However, the administration learned that forty percent of the
country considered themselves born-again Christians, and very few had
previously participated in government. It then became clear this was a
promise Reagan would break. He did appoint James Watt, a member of
the Assemblies of God, as Secretary of the Interior, but made few other
high-level appointments among the born-again.756
Even more troubling to the religious right was an announcement by
the Reagan administration shortly after his election “that serious
consideration of the ‘social agenda’ would have to be deferred for at least a
year, to give the new administration time to focus on economic
recovery.”757 The religious right quickly learned that getting into bed with
the political right could lead to broken hearts. Their issue was not the
traditional guns vs. butter, it was God vs. butter. It was religious absolutism
vs. political compromise.
Cal Thomas, a syndicated columnist and vice president of the Moral
Majority, called politics “a great seducer.” He spoke of traveling around
the country to different churches and seeing prominently displayed
pictures of the local pastor with Ronald Reagan. Thomas worried about the
ability of some pastors to speak truth to power because, “Ronald Reagan
became the surrogate messiah.”758 Many religious leaders were troubled
by what political dabbling could do to their religion. Such concerns over
the years led Cal Thomas to assert that religious right activists had erred by
placing too much emphasis on politics when they should be saving
souls.759
Not everyone on the religious right agreed. Reverend D. James
Kennedy, head of Coral Ridge Ministries, views such talk as heresy.760
Kennedy had invited Thomas to be a leadoff speaker at Kennedy’s 1999
“Reclaiming America for Christ” conference. After Thomas’s book
appeared, Kennedy summarily replaced him on the program with
Inerrancy Turned Political 195
Republican House Majority Leader Dick Armey. Thomas even
complained to the Washington Post about how the Right, not the Left, had
censored him.761
Cal Thomas had certainly not been a liberal humanist over the years.
In his syndicated January 2, 1995, column that I read in the Charleston
Post and Courier, he expressed dismay over the views of a theology
student at Emory University. He wrote, “One might ask what good it does
to study theology if the subject doesn’t point the student to an authority
higher than his or her own mind?”
I responded in a letter to the editor that:
Mr. Thomas, along with most of the religious right, apparently
does not understand the difference between an education and
indoctrination. A rational inquiry into transcendent religious
questions like the nature and existence of a deity leads different
people to different conclusions. There is more to an education
than the memorization of a body of facts or a catechism.762
In some sense, when the Soviet Union “evil empire” was no longer
around to demonize, many in the religious right began focusing even more
on the culture war they saw within the United States. In his 1994 book,
Character & Destiny, Reverend D. James Kennedy asserts that America
was once a Christian nation. However, he argues, “the hostile barrage from
atheists, agnostics, and other secular humanists has begun to take a serious
toll on that heritage.” He continues, “Our job is to reclaim America for
Christ, whatever the cost.” He is certain victory will be achieved:
“Christians did not start the culture war but we are going to end it. That is a
fact, and the Bible assures us of victory.”763
A couple of years earlier, at the 1992 Republican convention,
conservative presidential candidate Pat Buchanan also spoke on the same
theme: “There is a religious war going on in this country. It's a cultural war
as critical to the kind of nation we shall be as the Cold War itself. This war
is for the soul of America.”764 The religious left had also long been active
in working for cultural changes, especially in advocating civil rights and a
decent standard of living for all. The cultural and political issues most
identified with the religious right were, and still are, abortion, pornography,
homosexuality, and prayer in public schools.
Ralph Reed, former Executive Director of the Christian Coalition and
currently President of Century Strategies, a political consulting firm, is
196 The Fundamentals of Extremism
both a Christian conservative and a practical politician who has tried to cast
a wider net. He mentioned in 1996 the difficulty the Christian Coalition
had in recruiting blacks. It was because white evangelical Protestants,
especially in the South, had been on the wrong side of the most central
struggle for social justice in the twentieth century, the struggle for civil
rights. He said, “They preached against it, they organized against it, they
used their pulpits to argue that the mixing of politics and religion by black
ministers like Martin Luther King was wrong.”765
The religious right continued to struggle with civil rights during the
Republican primary campaign of 2000, when most candidates competed
for votes from the religious right. In one debate, George W. Bush scored
points when he said his favorite philosopher was Jesus Christ. By February
of 2000, the field had narrowed to two—George W. Bush and John
McCain. While campaigning in the politically crucial South Carolina
primary, Bush accepted an invitation to speak at Bob Jones University, a
controversial fundamentalist school in the state. The University’s web site
contained the following judgment about Roman Catholicism:
The Roman church is not another Christian denomination. It is a
Satanic counterfeit, an ecclesiastic tyranny over the souls of men,
not to bring them to salvation, but to hold them bound in sin and
hurl them into eternal damnation. It is the old harlot in the Book of
Revelation, the mother of harlots.”766
Bush’s spokesperson, Mindy Tucker, was asked why he spoke at the
school, which also did not allow interracial dating. Tucker gave an honest
response: “The governor doesn't agree with that policy, but this is a school
that has a lot of conservative voters, and it's a common stop on the
campaign trail.”767 Competing candidate John McCain criticized Bush’s
visit to Bob Jones and lost the South Carolina fundamentalist vote and the
South Carolina Republican primary. McCain never recovered, and Bush
easily captured the Republican nomination.
The religious right has made and continues to make significant
political inroads. At a prayer breakfast during the 2000 Republican
convention, Roman Catholic Father Frank Provone of Priests for Life
spoke:
There never has been a national election more important than the
one we face this year. It is not going to be business as usual,
particularly in the churches. We need to reaffirm again and again
that we as believers who look forward to the world to come . . .
Inerrancy Turned Political 197
have our citizenship in heaven. . . . We are called to testify to the
truth and one of the places we testify to the truth is the voting
booth. . . . The church does not dictate the policies of the nation.
The church proclaims the truth of God to which these policies
must conform.768
President George W. Bush certainly pleased the religious right with
his choice for attorney general. The American Civil Liberties Union
(ACLU) commented:
The mere fact that the nation’s new Attorney General John
Ashcroft received a 100 percent rating on every Christian
Coalition voting scorecard from the time he entered the U.S.
Senate in 1995 should be enough to send a shudder down the
spine of anyone who cares about the separation of church and
state.769
The ACLU pointed out that Ashcroft had steered his “entire political
career” in one direction. He was trying to institute sectarian religious
practices and beliefs into United States laws.770 President Bush and
Ashcroft have mentioned Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas as models
for the type of justices they would like to appoint to the Supreme Court.
Both Scalia and Thomas have proven their anti-gay and anti-abortion
biases in their Supreme Court voting records.771
President Bush has established a federal office to implement the
funding of religious organizations providing social services. This is an
alarming example of where the president stands on separation of church
and state and where he intends to go with it. But most worrisome of all is
the likely intent of the Bush administration to replace retiring Supreme
Court justices with others in the Scalia-Thomas mold.772
The candidate without a prayer
In 1990, I had a personal and political encounter with the religious
right. Born in Philadelphia, educated there and in New York, I moved to
South Carolina in 1976 to teach at the College of Charleston. Before 1990,
I was vaguely aware of living in the “Bible Belt,” but blissfully unaware of
what it really meant or how it could affect me. After all, as a mathematics
professor, my cultural life was wrapped around the wonderfully insulated
198 The Fundamentals of Extremism
world of academe. I was about to learn how the influence and effectiveness
of the religious right would significantly change my world forever.
Why would a liberal, Yankee, atheist Jew, who had never before
sought political office, suddenly become a South Carolina gubernatorial
candidate? My political saga began when a colleague at the College of
Charleston pointed out a clause in the South Carolina Constitution that,
“No person shall be eligible for the office of governor who denies the
existence of the Supreme Being.”
Article VI of the U.S. Constitution prohibits religious tests as
qualification to any public office. So, I consulted a local attorney, who
worked pro bono for the South Carolina affiliate of the ACLU. I asked him
how this obviously unconstitutional provision could be removed. The
attorney told me the only way to challenge it would be through an actual
candidacy by someone who publicly declared him or herself an atheist. In
fact, he said, the very best candidate would be me—in a race for governor
of South Carolina!
After giving this surprising suggestion much thought, I agreed to run. I
assumed, in my political naïveté, the state attorney general would simply
consent to bring South Carolina into compliance with federal law. I even
found that the United Citizens Party, a small party that rarely ran
candidates for any office, was willing to nominate me. Of course, I neither
expected nor wanted to be elected.
Much to my amazement, my announced candidacy drew national
attention because it seemed so unusual. South Carolina Governor Carroll
Campbell reacted by declaring that the state Constitution was fine as it was
because the country was founded on Godly principles. However, the first
political fence I had to mend was with my astonished and disapproving
mother. She had read an Associated Press story about my candidacy in the
Philadelphia Inquirer. I had to admit that reading her morning newspaper
was not the best way to find out that her only son was a gubernatorial
candidate—and an atheist!
I never thought my constitutional challenge would reach so far
geographically. And, like many nonbelievers, I wanted to spare family
members the potential discomfort such a revelation could bring. After I
calmed my mother down, she admitted she was not so distressed about my
actually being an atheist. She was more worried about the possible damage
to my reputation by such an open and public admission.
I told a reporter that I knew of no acknowledged atheists holding
public office anywhere in the country, but I expected there were “closet
atheists” in South Carolina and elsewhere. An AP story in the Charleston
News & Courier on May 3, 1990, printed responses by South Carolina
Inerrancy Turned Political 199
legislators. Representative Lenoir Sturkie called my statement, “political
maneuvering and a bunch of hogwash.” He added he knew of no atheists
in the state legislature. Representative Larry Martin assured the citizenry
that more than ninety percent of the legislators were “very active in their
local churches above and beyond their belief in God.” Martin, a Southern
Baptist, also offered to pray for me.773
Meanwhile, the South Carolina Election Commission noticed a story
printed in the News & Courier. The story had alleged “irregularities” in the
way I obtained the nomination of the United Citizens Party. On May 15,
the Election Commission voted 3-2 that this should be investigated by the
State Law Enforcement Division (SLED). The following day, the News &
Courier ran an uncomplimentary editorial about my alleged misdeeds
under the headline “Panel Wants Silverman Inquiry.” Neither the election
commission nor the newspaper offered me an opportunity to defend
myself against any charges, although I had informed SLED of my
willingness to cooperate and provide them with appropriate
documentation.
After hearing nothing about the investigation for eight weeks, I again
called SLED. I was told the investigation was nearly complete and my
input would not be needed. A few days later, the election commission
issued a report that irregularities had been found by SLED and therefore, I
would not be allowed on the ballot. It seems one of the United Citizens
Party leaders had been badgered by law enforcement officers about why
he was supporting an atheist. Eventually, he said he did not understand the
document he was signing when I received the party nomination. I had
witnesses who could have proved otherwise. My ACLU lawyer said I had
a legitimate grievance with the election commission, but he pointed out our
case would not be jeopardized if I campaigned as a write-in candidate,
which I agreed to do.
I campaigned across the state, appearing in as many “Meet the
Candidate” forums as I could persuade to invite me. I always explained
that I viewed my case as a civil rights issue. After a forum, the audience
often had a chance to speak with the candidates over refreshments. At one
such event in the city of Spartanburg, people were keeping their distance
from me, as invariably happened. But as I was leaving, one man
approached me and hurriedly whispered he was a high-school principal
and just wanted to let me know how brave he thought I was to say what I
did. He then quickly walked away.
200 The Fundamentals of Extremism
I also appeared on radio talk shows. I would typically be introduced as
a “so-called” atheist, or an “admitted” atheist. I wondered what the reaction
would have been if another guest had been introduced as a “so-called”
Presbyterian, or an “admitted” Southern Baptist. Christian conservative
callers would often ask if I worshipped Satan, since I “had to believe in
something.” However, the oddest comments came from callers who
assumed I must feel free to rape, murder, or commit all sorts of atrocities
because I did not believe in a judging God. I told those callers that, with
such an attitude, I hoped they maintained their belief in a God—for the
sake of society!
I received many condemnatory and proselytizing letters from the
religious right. On the rare occasions a return address was included, I wrote
back and explained my point of view. I was learning that my campaign
was needed not simply to change an unconstitutional state provision. More
important was my attempt to change the hearts and minds of my fellow
South Carolinians.
My day in court came on October 5, 1990, a month before the
election. The state Attorney General had refused to declare the religious
test for public office unconstitutional. Instead, he sent three lawyers to
challenge me on four grounds: mootness, because I was denied
nomination by a party; standing, because I was not a legitimate candidate;
ripeness, meaning there was no need to decide the case at the moment; and
the Eleventh Amendment, regarding restrictions on suing state officials.
I thought it ironic that the News & Courier had recently ended an
editorial with, “If Mr. Silverman truly is trying to teach tolerance rather
than atheism, as he says, then he will think twice about legal challenges
that needlessly consume taxpayer dollars.”774 In truth, the state was
spending thousands of dollars to enforce an obviously unconstitutional
provision.
On judgment day, Judge David Norton dismissed the case on grounds
it was not ripe because I had little chance of winning. Norton had just been
appointed to the U.S. District Court of South Carolina upon nomination by
Senator Strom Thurmond. In effect, he refused to rule on the constitutional
issue unless I won the election—which, of course, I did not.
A few months later, I discovered that South Carolina’s Constitution
prohibited atheists from holding any public office. My lawyer told me I
could challenge this by applying for a notary public license. A virtually
identical provision of the Maryland Constitution had been struck down in
1961 by the U.S. Supreme Court in Torcaso v. Watkins. If South Carolina
were to grant me a notary public license, it would be an admission by the
Inerrancy Turned Political 201
state that religious tests could no longer be a qualification for public office.
My attorney expected this notary campaign to be shorter and more
successful than my gubernatorial campaign. Shorter, it was not! South
Carolina is normally one of the easiest states to become a notary. All
applications are routinely approved by the office of the governor. I paid my
$25 fee in October of 1991, but crossed out the phrase “so help me God”
on the application. I also mentioned that the U.S. Constitution prohibits
religious tests as a qualification for public office.
Secretary of State James Miles returned my application on the grounds
I had not filled out the form properly. My lawyer then sent it directly to
Governor Carroll Campbell, who rejected it. When we asked why, a
spokesperson for his office replied it would be far too burdensome to give
reasons for every negative decision. Later, in a deposition taken from
Secretary Miles in 1994, he was forced to disclose that 33,471 notary
applications were approved from 1991 to 1993. Mine was the only one
denied in that period. To my knowledge, I am the only person in the
history of South Carolina to be rejected as a notary public.
Governor Campbell left office in January 1995, still claiming
immunity from giving a deposition in which he might be compelled to
state under oath the reason for denying me the notary. Then we got help
from a most unlikely source. My ACLU lawyer argued successfully in
circuit court that if the lawyers of Paula Corbin Jones could depose
President Clinton, then former Governor Campbell could no longer avoid
being deposed.
In an ironic coincidence, John Whitehead, founder of the politically
conservative Rutherford Institute, defended Paula Jones in her case against
Clinton. In his book, The Second American Revolution, Whitehead had
blasted the U.S. Supreme Court for striking down religious requirements
for public office in the 1961 Torcaso v. Watkins case. This decision was
the basis for my case. In that ruling, Whitehead wrote, the Supreme Court,
“rejected Judeo-Christian theism as the religion and foundation of the
United States.”775 Whitehead is correct in his assertion. The Supreme
Court affirmed we are, indeed, a secular nation in which religious tests for
public office are unconstitutional.
My lawyer took an eighty-six-page deposition from Governor
Campbell on March 3, 1995. Among his many convoluted responses, the
governor argued why it might be permissible to deny office based on
religious beliefs:
202 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Would it be right to have somebody running for public office that
was avowed to overthrow and destroy the United States of
America, and they didn’t believe in a supreme being but they
believed in a foreign government, and they call that a religion?776
On August 2, 1995, the presiding judge of the Fifth Judicial Circuit in
the Court of Common Pleas said my petition to be a notary met all the
legal requirements. He requested that the governor act on my application
within thirty days. Former governor Carroll Campbell had successfully
resisted granting me a notary while in office. So, the decision now resided
with his successor, Governor David Beasley. He had been elected in 1994
with strong Christian Coalition support. A born-again Christian, Beasley
hoped to see creationism incorporated into the public school curriculum.
Secretary of State James Miles urged state officials to appeal the
Circuit Court decision because he did not think the provision represented
religious discrimination. He said, “I believe that language is appropriate
because I’m a Christian.”777 Unwilling to go quietly, even after losing a
judicial reconsideration appeal, Governor Beasley then appealed to the
South Carolina Supreme Court.
A headline in the renamed Charleston Post & Courier on October 31,
1995, read, “Gov. David Beasley wants the S.C. Supreme Court to decide
if office seekers should be forced to believe in a Supreme Being.”778
I responded to an inquiring reporter that I understood how I could be
forced to say I believe (torture would work!). But Governor Beasley did
not clarify how I could actually be forced to believe. My point was that it is
proper for government to regulate some behavior, but it can never regulate
belief. In interviews, I could not resist mentioning that the state considered
me qualified to be a professor of mathematics at a public institution, yet it
deemed me lacking high enough ethical and moral standards for the office
of notary public. Perhaps the value of religious indoctrination over reason
and scientific inquiry might help explain the dismal condition of education
in South Carolina today, where SAT scores have been among the lowest in
the nation for many years.
The state Supreme Court heard my case in October 1996. A local
reporter asked me why I thought Governor Beasley was appealing to the
state Supreme Court. I said I was under the assumption that Governor
Beasley, who had a law degree, knew religious tests for public office were
unconstitutional. “By trying to exclude nonbelievers,” I said, “I think he is
simply playing to the religious bigotry of a segment of his constituency.”
In the same article, Gary Karr, the Governor’s press secretary,
responded that he “denies in the strongest terms that Governor Beasley is
Inerrancy Turned Political 203
a religious bigot and thinks it is a shame that Dr. Silverman would attack
the governor’s religious beliefs like that.”779
Good news for me came on May 27, 1997. The state Supreme Court
unanimously affirmed the Circuit Court’s holding that the South Carolina
Constitution violated the First Amendment and the Religious Test Clause
of the United States Constitution. Ironically, I shared top billing in the local
paper the next day with the person whose lawsuit paved the way for our
deposition of Governor Campbell. The two side-by-side headlines in the
Charleston Post & Courier were: “Atheist wins fight against ‘God clause’”
and “High court says Jones is clear to sue Clinton.”
The May 30 Spartanburg Herald-Journal opinion page said:
Silverman may not be a completely sympathetic figure as he
pursues office just to make a point for atheist rights. But he should
not be disqualified from the political life of the state solely
because of his religious beliefs or the lack thereof.780
Nevertheless, Governor Beasley still had a tough call to make. He did
not want to be the first governor of South Carolina to grant a notary
commission to an acknowledged atheist. However, he was reluctant to
appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court for a couple of reasons. His lawyers had
concentrated on the states’ rights argument that state officials had sworn to
uphold the state constitution without regard to previous U.S. Supreme
Court decisions. How could they then ask the federal government to
interfere with the unanimous decision of the highest court in the sovereign
state of South Carolina?
In addition, South Carolina had recently squandered a substantial
amount of taxpayer dollars attempting to keep women out of The Citadel,
a South Carolina military college for men only. More litigation was
anticipated for having recently posted the Ten Commandments in the
Charleston County Council chambers. Conservative state officials did not
want to be criticized for wasting even more taxpayer dollars on what
would obviously be another costly and fruitless appeal of my case. Finally,
on August 8, 1997, Governor Beasley mailed me my notary commission.
Though I had hoped in 1990 for quick affirmation of an atheist’s right
to hold public office, the protracted engagement added undeniable benefits
to my life. I received considerable media attention in South Carolina,
which afforded me the opportunity to publicize a point of view not often
heard in the Bible belt. After each such appearance, I received enthusiastic
204 The Fundamentals of Extremism
phone calls and mail from people who thought they were the only ones in
South Carolina with those beliefs. This encouraged me to help found the
Secular Humanists of the Lowcountry, a vibrant community of local
freethinkers who meet monthly. Best of all for me, personally, I met my
wife, Sharon Fratepietro?in church! When I was running for governor in
1990, she heard me speak at the local Unitarian Church. She offered to
help in my campaign, and we have been together ever since.
Recently, one of my mathematics students, unfamiliar with my case,
saw my notary sign prominently displayed in my office and asked if I’d
had to go to law school to become a notary. I told him it was not quite that
simple. Law school would have taken only three years. It took longer for
me to receive my notary commission than my Ph.D. in mathematics! Of
course, my right to become a notary should not have taken seven years or
happened the way it did, but in many ways it was well worth the wait.
Although the religious right was ultimately unsuccessful in preventing
me from becoming a notary public, my case indicates the influence they
can exert over politicians. None of the political leaders in South Carolina,
and certainly not the lawyers advising them, believed they could prevail
legally if I continued to pursue my case. Yet, those same politicians
demonstrated they would rather waste time and money on a lost cause than
risk the wrath and lose the votes of a well-organized religious right.
Theocracy or democracy?
What are the political objectives of the religious right? After
conducting a wide variety of interviews, Conway and Siegelman
summarized the answers from leaders in the movement:
To Christianize America, to fill all government positions with
Bible believing Christians, to gain ascendancy over the national
media, to have fundamentalist beliefs taught as science in public
schools, to dictate the meaning of human life and ultimately to
convert every person on earth.781
In short, they would like to replace our secular democracy with a
fundamentalist theocracy.
Still, there is a tension within the religious right community about
whether a theocracy would be preferable to a democracy. Christian
Reconstructionist Gary North called the Constitution a “secular humanist”
document and called for scrapping it outright in favor of a new governing
document based explicitly on the Bible—or at least his interpretation of
Inerrancy Turned Political 205
it.782 This is a minority view, even among the religious right. Nonetheless,
Christian Right adherents generally view theonomy, or Rule of God, as an
ideal to work toward through the democratic process.
While a democratic society can easily accommodate differences of
opinion, a theonomy cannot. Few Americans would argue that the U.S.
Constitution is an infallible document, as the religious right views the
Bible. The framers understood the need for change and set forth
mechanisms for achieving it. On the other hand, the religious right accepts
the Bible, from Genesis to Revelation, as inerrant and unamendable. This
leads to conflicts with the religious right when scientific or humanistic
advances make it desirable to incorporate new information and change our
worldview and behavior. It is especially so when such changes seem to
conflict with their Biblical worldview. Evolution, which no literal reading
of the Bible can support, is a notable example.
Like the Bible, the Constitution once condoned slavery. But the
Constitution has been amended to make slavery illegal. Many nineteenth
century fundamentalists could easily quote Biblical passages (Genesis 9:
25, Timothy 6:1-2, Titus 2:9-10, Ephesians 6: 5) to defend the institution of
slavery. The Southern Baptist Convention came into existence in 1845
because of its support for slavery. Now, all but the most radical elements of
the religious right can either ignore or drastically reinterpret Biblical
passages to affirm their opposition to slavery. Homosexuality is another
issue the mainstream culture has begun to regard through twenty-first
century eyes, despite objections from the religious right.
Most religious right organizations assume there is a “correct” Christian
position on particular issues. However, the majority of Christians in this
country are not fundamentalists, and even they have significant
denominational differences. For example, every society, secular or
theocratic, condemns murder. Nevertheless, human interpretations of
murder differ, even for those who live according to their holy books.
Christians do not agree on whether murder includes euthanasia, suicide,
abortion, war, capital punishment, and now, stem cell research.
Christian Right groups insist only their version of the truth is correct. It
then becomes easy to dismiss Christians who disagree with them as not
being “true” Christians. Taking it one step further, any criticism of extreme
fundamentalist political objectives is painted as an assault on religion. This
“victimization” tactic becomes a useful political tool to energize the
religious right. Conservative strategist Paul Weyrich says he advised
Republican leaders in 1994 “to describe Clinton’s attacks on the Christian
206 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Right as an attack on religion itself.”783 Haley Barbour, former chairman
of the Republican National Committee, told the Washington Times that the
Democrats “think Christian-bashing is the only acceptable form of
religious bigotry left. . . . It’s offensive to every religious group in the
country.”784 Sometimes it is difficult to ascertain whether we are listening
to political pandering or a virulent strain of religious bigotry.
In trying to counter the religious right, President Bill Clinton in 1994
told a National Prayer Breakfast audience that “we should all seek to know
and do God’s will even when we differ.”785 Michael Kinsley questioned
comments about how Christians were shamed into retreating to their
closets. He asked, “Are those who pray regularly forced to keep it a
‘shameful secret’? Not in any America I know.”786
And how does the religious right hope to achieve its objectives?
Although they frequently complain about “liberal” control of the media,
the religious right does quite well on the airwaves. They maintain 24-houra-
day television and radio programming on a variety of networks.
Moreover, many religious right broadcasters have learned to progress
effortlessly from theological to political points. Political statements made
on religious broadcasts generally are not scrutinized or challenged by the
mainstream media.
As Mallica Dutt observes, “What gives the religious right its power is
a clear vision of the kind of society it wishes to create.”787 In part, because
of their effectiveness with media, the religious right is currently much
better organized than the political left. They vote in greater proportion to
their numbers and they communicate with their elected representatives.
According to Appleby, fundamentalist leaders often manipulate religion to
meet their political ends. They are well versed in political processes and
mass-marketing techniques. They seem to thrive “because secular
modernity seems exhausted of solutions to social problems.”788
George Grant, a far right activist, explains how concentrating on single
candidates can help gain control: “Since only about sixty percent of the
people are registered to vote and only about thirty-five percent of those
actually bother to go to the polls, a candidate only needs to get the support
of a small, elite group of citizens to win.”789
This strategy has proved successful in many local and congressional
elections. Ed Dobson and Edward Hindson, in their book, The Seduction of
Power, reveal:
Conservative evangelicals have shown a great ability to make the
political system work for them. . . . Right wing evangelicals have
Inerrancy Turned Political 207
learned very quickly how to get voters registered, platforms
adopted, and candidates into office.790
Further, the religious right has made strategic alliances.
Fundamentalists who do not have a strong interest in a particular
fundamentalist goal will often coalesce with those who do. This way they
earn support from fellow fundamentalists on other issues of importance to
themselves. With the polarization of religion in America, conservative
Jews, Mormons, Christian fundamentalists, and many Catholics now team
up on issues like opposition to abortion.791 Politicians, especially
Republicans, have come to see the religious right as an important
constituency.
How can the tactics of the religious right be neutralized? First, it must
be recognized that political success for this small but vocal and influential
minority relies on the apathy of others. Americans must become informed,
involved, and better organized. Those not on the religious right are
generally more flexible and can accommodate a broader range of opinions.
This should make it easier for diverse groups to work together.
That chimpanzees have a genetic structure more similar to humans
than to gorillas is a surprising discovery. If a “religious” gene were ever
discovered, I expect its structure for a liberal religionist would be more
similar to that of an atheist than a conservative religionist. Fundamentalists
in different religions have more in common with each other than they do
with the liberal wings within their own religions. On a plethora of political
issues such as church and state separation, abortion rights, gay rights, and
others, liberal religionists and nontheists are natural allies. More
cooperation can and should effectively counter the well-organized
religious right.
The religious right has not been averse to spreading erroneous
information on issues like public school hostility toward Christianity,
church and state separation, and the charge that the U.S. was founded as a
Christian nation. If left unchallenged, more people will begin to believe the
inaccurate assertions. This requires paying attention to the propaganda of
the religious right and learning which statements are misleading.
One need not master all the esoteric details before responding.
Neutrality toward religion in public schools is not anti-Christian. It is not
necessary to read about the original intent of the framers of the U.S.
Constitution, or what theological beliefs they held. What matters is that this
country was not founded as a Christian theocracy, but as a secular state
208 The Fundamentals of Extremism
which guarantees freedom for all. One can point to Article 6 of the U.S.
Constitution, prohibiting religious tests for public office. In addition, there
is the First Amendment’s separation of government from religion. These
are the only mentions of religion in the Constitution. No deities appear
anywhere in the U.S. Constitution, which makes it a “godless” document.
If someone argues that his or her church is being discriminated against
because it cannot endorse political candidates, it is not necessary to cite
dozens of legal justifications. Just mention that this country fought a
revolution against taxation without representation, not for representation
without taxation. If churches were willing to give up their tax-exempt
status, they would certainly be allowed to endorse candidates.
All sides agree on the importance of influencing future generations.
This is why the clash over educational philosophy is so crucial. Should
public institutions teach critical thinking skills and encourage ethical and
scientific development? Or should they follow a rigid code that demands
absolute obedience? These irreconcilable differences ensure the struggle
will endure for as long as there is a religious right.
The United States is fortunate never to have had a religious war,
although religious conservatism has long been a force in American society.
The influence of the religious right ebbs and flows, but its strength and
potential must never be dismissed. The religious right is a minority, though
an energized and outspoken one. Americans must remain vigilant to assure
that this minority will not intrude on the liberties of those who look, act, or
think differently from the way they do. Curt Sytsma understood this
persistent problem and illustrated it well in his poem “A Humanist
Manifesto,” which can be found in the introduction of Corliss Lamont’s
book, The Philosophy of Humanism.
A Humanist Manifesto
In every age, the bigot’s rage requires another focus,
Another devil forced on stage by hatred’s hocus pocus.
The devil used to be a Jew and then it was the witches,
And then it was the Negroes who were digging all the ditches.
The devil once was colored pink and labeled Communistic,
Now, all at once, in just a blink, the devil’s Humanistic. 792
209
Chapter 8
WINNING THE ‘BATTLE ROYAL’
PARALLELS AND SOLUTIONS
TO THE GROWING DANGER
by Edward M. Buckner
He that is not with me is against me.
Jesus, according to Matthew 12:30 (King James Version)
If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered; and
men gather them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned.
Jesus, according to John 15:6 (King James Version)
As the preceding chapters demonstrate, fundamentalism presents real
dangers to the lives and liberties of all Americans. It is not merely an
academic problem or a problem for people who find fundamentalism a
little strange or irrational. At risk are women, children, fair elections,
society as a whole, the rights of Americans to reproductive choices, their
freedom to choose sexual partners, freedom of religion, the freedom for all
kinds of dissent, and their rights to privacy and to die with dignity.
Therefore, the very existence of the American secular society is at risk.
The dangers to secularism ebb and flow. And it is certainly possible to find
historical examples of greater threats to freedom and secularism than we
now face, even in the history of the U.S. and certainly elsewhere, such as
during the Middle Ages. But the beginning of the twenty-first century
seems to be fraught with perils, many of them growing more frightening.
In a single sentence, the editor of The Fundamentals, Curtis Lee
Lawes, summed up, probably partly unintentionally, both the backwardlooking
and the militant stance of most fundamentalists: “We suggest that
those who still cling to the great fundamentals and who mean to do battle
210 The Fundamentals of Extremism
royal for the fundamentals shall be called ‘Fundamentalists.’”793 The fear
of modernism hinted at by the word “cling,” combined with the military
imagery of doing “battle royal,” accurately describe the challenge for
anyone interested in finding solutions to the problems of fundamentalism.
Military imagery in the writing and speeches of fundamentalists remains
prevalent, despite being identified by Ralph Reed as bad for public
relations.794
The core reasons fundamentalists are dangerous—and extraordinarily
hard to counter—are that fundamentalists:
?? are absolutist and unyielding in their certainty they are right
?? are sure an all-powerful, all-knowing God is directing them
?? are part of churches demanding strict obedience to doctrine and
expecting unquestioning loyalty
?? are more emotional than rational in maintaining their beliefs than
others, and,
?? since Curtis Lee Lawes first used the term and for centuries before
that, are aggressive, militaristic, militant in their approach—in
short, willing to be violent in the course of doing “battle royal.”
It should be immediately added that not all fundamentalists have all these
characteristics in equal measure, nor do fundamentalists even all agree on
exactly what constitute the “fundamentals.” Certainly some nonfundamentalists,
including some non-believers, have some of these traits.
But, the above is a fair summary of fundamentalism in general.
New Testament verses such as those introducing this chapter are
typical of the passages of allegedly sacred texts that the most dangerous
followers of any religion turn to. They take these literally and seriously, as
the adherents destroy lives. Jesus’ reported declaration that there can be no
middle ground, no neutrality, often stands in the way of defending a
secular society, which is the only long-term solution for the problems of
fundamentalism. John 15:6 is not used as often now. But it was a
terrifyingly dangerous verse during the Inquisition and could easily
become as dangerous again.
One of the most basic beliefs of fundamentalists is that moral
prescriptions for human behavior are unchanging and unchallengeable.
These prescriptions are believed to have come straight from a perfect,
immutable God. This makes for an almost impenetrable defensive shell, a
key reason for the intractable nature of these problems. If, after all, one or a
group is certain that directions for living are coming unfiltered from an allpowerful,
all-knowing God, how can others hope to argue against such
Winning the ‘Battle Royal’ 211
orders? If an absolute foundation, a rigid code, is considered desirable, then
the pressure to accept a particular one is strong even if the evidence it
actually came straight from a divine source is lacking. This is a major
reason fundamentalist leaders teach that secularists are a grave threat. It is
because of secular tentativeness, the relativity of secular standards, the
inability to declare that moral standards are connected to an absolute
foundation or to fundamental supernatural truths.
To solve any problem, the critical first step is to understand exactly
what the problem is, the purpose this book is dedicated to. If, as Curtis Lee
Lawes suggested, Americans are in a “battle royal,” a leading item on the
agenda should be to identify allies and opponents correctly. It should be
taken into account the lessons to be learned from experiences outside of
one’s own, such as those seen in Islamic-controlled societies. The crucial
battle is not between fundamentalists and “liberal” or “mainstream”
religious believers nor is it between fundamentalists and irreligious people.
Rather, the fight most crucial is between fundamentalists and secularists.
That is the one for which secularists must be prepared to do serious battle,
if only as a necessary defense to liberty for all.
Secularists constitute the main audience for this book, for they are the
only hope for combating the perils of fundamentalism. They are all those
people, some religious and some not, who understand that secular control
of government and society is necessary. Secularists are those who are
capable of looking beyond their own beliefs or lack of beliefs. They
understand that those who have, or who pretend to have, religious
authority cannot be allowed to govern society.
Fundamentalist Islam: different problems, different solutions?
Islamic fundamentalism has been brought forcefully to the attention of
Americans since September 11, 2001. Much of the rest of the world was
already aware of the dangers even before the events of that horrible day.
Because the word “fundamentalism” is a Christian invention, Muslims
object to its application to Islam.795 Despite this, it seems reasonable in
many regards to expand its use to cover any who believe the fundamentals
of their faith require doing “battle royal.”
Since September 2001, the fundamentalists making the news most
often have been Islamic, but they have not been the only ones. Not only
Islamic fundamentalists, but Israeli Jewish fundamentalists, have
contributed to the rigidity, horrors, and intractability of problems in the
212 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Middle East.796 Fundamentalist Hindus and Muslims in India killed more
than 800 in early 2002 alone. They apparently burned or hacked to death
innocent, uninvolved people, including many women and children on both
sides, in religious warfare in Gujarat state in western India.797 Christian and
Muslim fundamentalists have brutally murdered each other at least since
the Crusades. One of the more recent examples of this is in the Maluku
province of Indonesia. There, 9,000 have been killed in religious warfare,
including women and small children who have been stabbed, burned, or
shot, just in the last three years.798 Another recent example is in Nigeria,
where over 100 people have died in rioting in “Kaduna, a northern city of
several million people with a history of Muslim-Christian violence,” over
disputes about the claimed insult to Islam of holding the Miss World
pageant there in December 2002.799
A brief summary of non-Christian fundamentalism, especially Islamic
fundamentalism, is appropriate. This is because there are many things in
common among those of all religions who are willing to be literalist and
militant, to engage in a “battle royal” for their religions. Fundamentalist
Muslims, like fundamentalist Christians, can easily find support for their
militancy and absolutism in a literal reading of their scriptures.800 For the
Islamic literalists, verses from the Qur’an serve that purpose:
Say to the Infidels: if they desist from their unbelief, what is now
past shall be forgiven; but if they return to it, they have already
before them the doom of the ancients! Fight then against them till
strife be at an end, and the religion be all of it Allah’s.801
Kill those who join other gods with Allah wherever you may find
them.802
Since this book concerns primarily Christian fundamentalism, only an
overview of Islamic fundamentalism and of possible solutions for it will be
considered. There is no implication intended here that Christian and
Islamic fundamentalism are precisely parallel. Nor are their dangers
exactly the same. But the brusque dismissal by Christian fundamentalists
of any parallel presented is also unwarranted. When fundamentalism of
any sort reaches its most fanatical stage, the dangers to individuals and
society are acute and the need for solutions urgent.
The best sources for in-depth understanding of Islam from the
perspective of a non-Islamic believer are probably books published by
Prometheus Books. These include several by Ibn Warraq, especially Why I
Am Not A Muslim.803 Consider the threats that have come from
Winning the ‘Battle Royal’ 213
contemporary Islamic fundamentalists. This best shows the real paradox
for any who want to protect religious liberty for all, including for
fundamentalists. The fundamentalist variations of Islam show, vividly and
frighteningly, what dangers a rigid, absolutist religion of any kind can
produce. As Lawrence Davidson wrote in Islamic Fundamentalism, “Any
ideology (Islamic or otherwise) that claims a monopoly of truth, and sees
its content as divinely posited, is unlikely to tolerate political
opposition.”804
Bernard Lewis has described Islam, at earlier periods of history, as
being strong, even dominant. Islamic scholars are divided on “What Went
Wrong.” He noted:
It was bad enough for Muslims to feel poor and weak after
centuries of being rich and strong, to lose the position of
leadership that they had come to regard as their right, and to be
reduced to the role of followers of the West. But the twentieth
century, particularly the second half, brought further humiliation. .
. .805
There are, according to Lewis, scholars who blame Islamic
fundamentalism for the great decline. But there are many others, mostly
fundamentalists, who are convinced otherwise. They are certain the
problems and losses in Islamic lands are directly attributable to abandoning
true, foundational Islam in favor of modernism. These fundamentalists
stand in sharp contrast to those for whom, says Lewis, a “principal cause of
Western progress is the separation of Church and State and the creation of
a civil society governed by secular laws.”806 Lewis argued forcefully for
the idea that Islamic culture has lost its once-great power and effectiveness.
He says it is for precisely the opposite reasons identified by the
fundamentalists; the reduction of power came because of the loss of crucial
freedoms.807
Ibn Warraq concluded Why I Am Not a Muslim with a chapter called
“Islam in the West.” It offers a firm call to Western cultures to have the
courage of their values and to not be afraid to defend those values. He
warned against interpreting Western liberalism as supporting a simplistic
multiculturalism that essentially declares all cultural values are equally
valid. Warraq insisted Islamic fundamentalists should not be allowed to
exploit Western values while they attempt to overthrow them.
214 The Fundamentals of Extremism
As Warraq wrote, “despite all the shortcomings of Western liberal
democracy, it is far more preferable to the authoritarian, mind-numbing
certitudes of Islamic theocracy.”808 He offered no specific solutions
beyond education. He did offer his clarion call for fighting forthrightly
against those fundamentalists of the Islamic faith intent on battle royal. He
concluded Why I Am Not with war imagery: “Therefore, the final battle
will not necessarily be between Islam and the West, but between those
who value freedom and those who do not.”809 The authors of this book
firmly agree with Warraq: this is a battle. And it will not be won unless we
have the courage to oppose anti-secularism, anti-American, anti-freedom
fundamentalists, wherever they exist. However, we urge exclusively
nonmilitary, nonviolent action.
As already noted, both Islamic and Christian fundamentalists would
hotly deny their similarities. Islamic defenders might point out that past
Christian absolutism and extreme orthodoxy has proven every bit as
dangerous to human beings and society as the worst extremes of Islamic
fundamentalism. In Iran, Pakistan, and Afghanistan, secularists did not
prevail. In other more democratically-run nations such as Turkey, secular
society increasingly comes up against Islamic and other religious
fundamentalists. If given their way, Turkish fundamentalists would have
religious rule.
Many Americans, out of concern for human welfare, express concern
with events halfway around the globe. But why, outside of the legitimate
concern for human welfare, should Americans care? Because scores of
parallels identified between Christian, Islamic, and other fundamentalisms
must be acknowledged. These parallels have been addressed by journalists
since September 11. Yet, probably for defensive reasons, Christian
fundamentalists, and Americans in general, often fail to see the connection
and denounce the comparisons.
This lack of vision was demonstrated most profoundly when
evangelical columnist Gregory J. Rummo recently wrote, “calling
Christians ‘Taliban’ is slander.” This reference to the Taliban, contrary to
Rummo’s perception, has generally been made in a comparative sense.
The purpose has been to point out the likeness between Christian and
Islamic fundamentalists and has been limited in reference to Christian
fundamentalists and extremists. It has not been a catch-all for Christians in
general. “So what are the differences,” Rummo asked, “between the
Taliban and America’s Christian conservatives?” According to Rummo:
The Taliban are Islamic extremists who use the Koran to justify
repressive and reprehensible practices on members of their own
Winning the ‘Battle Royal’ 215
faith while declaring jihad against all who oppose them. They
have been rightly characterized as ‘misanthropic, misogynist,
triumphalist [belief in the superiority of a religious creed],
millenarian, anti-modern, anti-Christian, anti-Semitic, terroristic,
jihadistic, and suicidal.’810
With the exception of “anti-Christian,” which could easily be replaced
with ‘anti-Muslim’ and ‘anti-secular humanist,’ the characteristics
described by Pipes and Rummo are quite similar to those observed in
Christian fundamentalists. This has been revealed time and again
throughout this book. Christian and Islamic fundamentalists have nearly
identical characteristics—and for the most part hold the same myopic
views as to what constitutes morality. Christian fundamentalists read about
the atrocities in Islamic-controlled nations. Yet, they see only the extreme,
oppressive forces that have grasped control. They fail to see the parallels
between their own beliefs and those of the other fundamentalism.
Like Christians, Muslims are not all the same. What sets Islamic
fundamentalists apart from liberal Muslims is that Islamic fundamentalists
interpret the Qur’an literally811 just as the Bible is interpreted by Christian
fundamentalists. There are two main Islamic groups, the Shi’ites and the
Sunnites. The Sunnites are the overwhelmingly larger and more liberal of
the Muslims. The Shi’ites are divided into several sects812 and are the
smaller, more conservative and extreme of the Muslims. As observed in
Christian fundamentalism, some Islamic sects are politically active and
some keep to themselves.
In the South Asian subcontinent, the two most important Islamic
fundamentalist movements take very different approaches, according to
Mumtaz Ahmad of the Fundamentalism Project. At a 1989, Jamaat-i-
Islami Pakistan national conference in Lahore, Pakistan, Qazi Hussain
Ahmad, president of the movement stated in his inaugural address:
We are gathered here to reaffirm our pledge to Almighty Allah
that we will make Pakistan a truly Islamic state, a state where
Shariá [the way of life set forth by the Qur’an] will reign supreme,
a state based on justice for the people and accountability of the
rulers, a state which will be a model of Islamic power for the rest
of the Muslim world.813
216 The Fundamentals of Extremism
At the same time, only thirty miles away, a million Muslims gathered
at the international conference of Tablighi Jamaat. This very different
event found people in tents. According to Ahmad, they were “either
praying or reciting the Qur’an or listening to each other’s testimonies of
faith and spiritual reawakening.” The enis (president) of the Tablighi
Jamaat, Maulana Inamul Hasan, said in his farewell address:
Go and take the eternal message of Islam to the four corners of the
globe. Remind your brethren of their religious duties, remind
them of the day of Judgment; and call them to the remembrance
of the Almighty Allah, to submission to His will and obedience to
Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him).814
The Tablighi Jamaat movement is most concerned with the morality
and spirituality of individuals. It asks “them to fulfill their religious
obligations,” points out Ahmad, regardless of the nature of the state.
Paralleling Christian separatists, they believe their duty will be fulfilled by
closely adhering to the Muslim faith and by showing others the way. The
Jamaat-i-Islami, on the other hand, believes it is its duty to enforce its
fundamentalist views on all of society. It therefore, wants to establish an
Islamic state “with the Qur’an and Sunna (the way of the Prophet) as its
constitution and the Shariá as its basic law.”815
More telling of the views of more extreme Islamic fundamentalists,
similar to those of the Christian Right and specifically Christian
Reconstructionists, is that of Maulana Maududi. An Islamic
fundamentalist, he inspired the Pakistani Islamization. This is the process
of reviving the Shariá (Islamic law) in Pakistan, as narrowly interpreted by
Islamic fundamentalists. He argued that:
Unlike a Secular state, its duty is not merely to maintain
internal order. . . . Rather its first and foremost obligation is to
establish the system of Salat [prayer] and Zakat [alms tax], to
propagate and establish those things which have been
declared to be “virtues” by God and His Messenger, and to
eradicate those things which have been declared to be “vices”
by them. In other words, no state can be called Islamic if it
does not fulfil [sic] this fundamental objective of an Islamic
State. Thus a state which does not take interest in establishing
virtue and eradicating vice and in which adultery, drinking,
gambling, obscene literature, indecent films, vulgar songs,
immoral display of beauty, promiscuous mingling of men
Winning the ‘Battle Royal’ 217
and women, co-education, etc. flourish without let or
hindrance, cannot be called an Islamic State. An Islamic
Constitution must declare the above mentioned objective as
the primary duty of the State.816
These goals and obsessions differ little from those of many other
fundamentalist religions, most evidently, Christian fundamentalism.
Notably, Islamic fundamentalists took credit for one of the largest
revolutions of modern history in Iran in 1979. The conservative religious
leader, Ayatollah Khomeini, led an Islamic regime to replace Iran’s semisecular
government. Religious symbols and slogans were used by the new
conservative government, as has swept America since September 11. A
focus on gender relations and female sexuality also became markedly
pronounced in Iran. As is prescribed by Christian fundamentalists,
domesticity and motherhood were stipulated for Iranian women “based on
divine rules.” The promotion of marriage became the emblem for solving
society’s problems. Family planning came to be seen as an evil, just as it is
by Christian fundamentalists, and was severely affected. Supplies for birth
control “became erratic” and unaffordable because of disapproval by
conservative religious leaders. This ultimately resulted in substantial
population growth.817
Islam provides direction to the Islamic fundamentalist “for every
aspect of life—culture, politics, economics and personal behavior,” says
Richard Swift, editor of The New Internationalist. Islamic fundamentalists
adhere to the Shariá Law, he explains, “which represents the direct rule of
Allah over society.” They are militantly puritanical (professing a pure
moral code) and egalitarian. They oppose drugs, alcohol, homosexuality,
women’s rights, abortion, premarital or extramarital sex, and are suspicious
of wealth. Islamic fundamentalists take extreme measures. They censor
and even dismember to ensure such “manifestations of ‘the modern
world’” are not practiced.818
The effects of Christian fundamentalism on women in America have
not reached the severity witnessed in Islamic-controlled countries. This is
because America’s democracy is currently intact. Still, the degree to which
women can be affected by fundamentalism is staggering. Domestic
violence may not be as readily accepted in America. Regardless, it is still
present to a large degree in Christian fundamentalist homes and in many
cases, even to the severities that have been demonstrated in Middle Eastern
Islamic societies.
218 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Similar to views endorsed by Christian fundamentalists, women in
Pakistan and elsewhere are looked upon as merely property. Their duty is
to serve and be treated as a husband sees fit. Many Pakistani women
believe just as those in Christian fundamentalist homes do—that they
deserve such treatment. At the very least, they know there is nothing they
can do to prevent it.819 In October 2001, a study by the Punjab Women
Development and Social Welfare Department reported:
some 42% of women accepted violence as part of their fate, while
over 33% felt too helpless to stand up to it; only 19% protested
and only 4% took action against it. The perpetrators of such
violence were male relatives (53%), husbands (32%) followed by
other women (13%) and other relatives (2%). The report stated
that only some five per cent of rape and 'honour' crimes were
reported.820
As in America, however, such violence often goes far beyond abuse.
In Lahore, a woman was burned to death in April, 2000, by her husband.
In the hospital, just before passing away, she told her family her mother-inlaw
had helped her husband beat her. The punishment was for giving
“birth to a baby girl after two years of marriage.” She “had also refused to
consent to her husband marrying a second wife.”821
In many Islamic countries, honor killings are a widespread practice.
This is true in Iran, and even Turkey, a country that is relatively
democratic, but which has increasingly been affected by Islamic
fundamentalism. Husbands and male relatives commonly murder women
for bringing shame to the family. This can result simply by refusing a
forced marriage. The killers often defend their actions by referring to the
Qur’an or Islamic doctrines. They are likely to receive reduced sentences
or none at all. In a documentary, Crime of Honour, broadcast on Cinemax,
footage was shown of a woman and a man who was presumed to be her
lover. They were “huddle[d] in the middle of a street covered only in a
white sheet and [being] stoned until death.”822 Stoning is the form of death
penalty favored by Christian Reconstructionists.
Since the Taliban took power in Afghanistan in 1996, women were
beaten on the street regularly by religious police “for infractions like
wearing white socks,” which qualifies as “fashionable” or “charming”
clothing. This is something an earlier decree by the Ministry for the
Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice insisted would prevent
women from going to heaven. Women were also brutally beaten for going
into public without their burkas, the “head-to-toe” garments used to cover
Winning the ‘Battle Royal’ 219
their faces. A ban had also been placed on women working outside the
home, except for select healthcare positions. This resulted in nearly one
million widows being turned into the streets to beg. Women’s healthcare
suffered because male physicians were not allowed to thoroughly examine
women lest the doctor risk imprisonment. Because of the rulings affecting
women’s healthcare and other oppressive measures, the average life
expectancy of Afghan women is now only forty-four years.823
The Christian Right’s lack of concern for women’s welfare and their
hostility toward women in general can be easily identified. First, they
oppose measures protecting women from the immense suffering they are
subjected to in other parts of the world. Second, they call for divorce law
and welfare reforms to make divorce more difficult to obtain in America,
and third, they oppose reform in countries where divorce is difficult if not
impossible to attain. These are yet two more examples of their disregard
for women.
The tragic treatment of women in many Middle Eastern countries has
finally come to light. Therefore, it is beyond irresponsible that the U.S.,
under the Bush administration, failed to sign international measures for
their protection. Despite the Taliban’s recent flight from Kabul, women
have not been relieved of the risk of being beaten by their husbands. A
reporter for Time, Richard Lacayo, as reported in the December 3, 2001,
issue, was told by a mother of seven, “My husband says the Koran tells
him he can control his wife however he wants.” She said she has read the
Qur’an and found this to be an untruth. Yet, if she disobeys him, she is
helpless and has been beaten on many occasions.
The perverseness placed on women’s sexuality by Christian
fundamentalists extends to other fundamentalisms and cultures as well.
The only difference is that in Islamic fundamentalism it is seen to a more
far-reaching degree. In African and Middle Eastern nations, nearly two
million girls are genitally mutilated each year. Infibulation, the severest
form, consists of removing part or all of the clitoris and labia minora. Then
there is the “cutting of the labia majora to create raw surfaces, which are
then stitched or held together in order to form a cover over the vagina.”824
A small opening is left for urination and menstrual flow. The procedure is
performed anytime between infancy and adulthood, without any pain
relief. It is usually “carried out using broken glass, a tin lid, scissors, a razor
blade, or some other cutting instrument” and often leads to death or
lifelong health or psychological problems. Upon first intercourse, a woman
220 The Fundamentals of Extremism
must endure painful dilation and often must be cut, generally by her
husband, before penetration can take place.
Genital mutilation is not done exclusively for religious purposes.
Gender identity, cultural identity, and beliefs pertaining to hygiene play a
large role. Nonetheless, religion is often a factor. Although most Muslims
do not practice the ritual, sayings of the Prophet Muhammad are cited by
those Muslims who do, as the reason for the practice.
There is also the dimension of female sexuality and an obsession with
purity, similar to Christian fundamentalists, playing a crucial role in genital
mutilation. As a Kenyan woman argued, “Circumcision makes women
clean, promotes virginity and chastity, and guards young girls from sexual
frustration by deadening their sexual appetite.”825
As has been most clearly seen since the World Trade Center collapse,
“jihad” is a primary focus of the more extreme Islamic fundamentalists.
This concept is thoroughly studied in Pakistan’s madrasahs (religious
schools). The meaning can range from the harmless “personal struggle” to
the most lethal—“holy war.” Professor Syed Minhaj ul Hassan, of
Peshawar University, said many Muslim students are taught they will be
welcomed by virgins into heaven if they die for Islam.826
Christian fundamentalists also talk of being at war. But for many it is a
political and social rather than a physical war. A large assemblage of others
are preparing and arming themselves through a vast number of militias.
And like the heavenly welcome anticipated by Muslim extremists, there
are also the millennial beliefs held by Christian fundamentalists. While
they do not include a heavenly welcome by virgins, they do anticipate the
chosen being raptured while the rest of humanity faces immense suffering
and warfare.
The Christian fundamentalist fear of uncensored ideas being taught in
school also has its counterpart in Islamic fundamentalist societies. For
example, as part of its Islamisation campaign, Jamaat leaders in Kashmir,
“ransacked libraries in the educational institutions,” says O.N. Trisal. They
also “ordered bans on books which did not correspond to their brand of
knowledge about man and his world.” The Kashmir University library saw
the loss of more than 2,000 books. This included, points out Trisal, “all the
books on Hindu philosophy, Milton's ‘Paradise Lost’ and George Bernard
Shaw's plays, and books by many other world renowned writers . . .”827
Teachers affiliated with the Jamaat shut down courses on Darwin’s theory
of evolution in medical institutions. This was because it was not in keeping
with fundamentalist Islamic tenets.828 Much of this same literature or ideas
have been subject to censorship by Christian fundamentalists for years. In
the Sudan, lectures were monitored to make sure they were in accordance
Winning the ‘Battle Royal’ 221
with fundamentalist tenets. Dr. Farouk Ibrahim el Nur, a member of the
Faculty of Science at Khartoum University was arrested for this crime. He
was tortured, “in an effort to force him to recant his belief in Darwinian
evolution.”829 This, of course, was before the closing of universities by the
National Islamic Front, the country’s most influential fundamentalist party
during the late 1980s.830
Most disturbing, in Pakistan, Mohammad Younas Sheikh, “is one of
perhaps dozens of educators accused by their students” of blasphemy as
was noted in the Washington Post on May 17, 2002. The sentence for
blasphemy in Pakistan, just as Christian Reconstructionists would respond,
is execution. Sheikh was convicted of a religious crime even though his
comments did not reject or ridicule Islam or the Prophet Muhammad.
Rather, he pointed out a contradiction in what Islamic fundamentalists see
as an Islamic truth. Sheikh had responded to a question by one of his
students that Muhammad could not have been a prophet or a Muslim
before the age of 40 because Islam had not previously existed. He now
awaits his execution. What is most ironic is the blasphemy cases took
place “under Pakistan’s president, General Pervez Musharraf,
Washington’s partner in the ‘war on terror.’”831
Restrictions on the practice of other religious beliefs have been
documented throughout American history and around the world today.
Wherever there is “official religion,” restrictions and religious persecution
may ensue. For example, in Malaysia, where Muslims are sixty percent of
the population, Islam is the official religion. The Malaysian Constitution
“gives citizens the right to freely profess, practice, and propagate their
religion.” However, “this right is restricted in practice.”832 While there are
no restrictions on Muslim places of worship, other religions must seek
government approval to establish such a place. Christian materials are
tightly restricted. Apostasy is punishable by fines or else imprisonment to
religiously rehabilitate the offender.
In Bosnia, the state constitution guarantees religious freedom, but
lacking a provision for church-state separation, there is little meaning
behind it. Catholics, Orthodox, and Muslims each dominate certain areas
of the country and persecute minority religions.833 It is tempting to view
the Middle East as unique by imagining it as a part of the world that has
always been out of step with modern society. But, this is not the case.
Because of the petroleum industry, the Middle East saw modernization in
the twentieth century, and its traditional ways of life subsided.
Secularization gave rise to the first wave of modernization in the Middle
222 The Fundamentals of Extremism
East, and religion became a private, rather than a public matter. Along with
this secular society arose equality for women. But, as with Christian
fundamentalism in America, the late 1960s in the Middle East was marked
by a rise in Islamic fundamentalism. The rights of women were reversed as
subordination to men again became emphasized.834
Perhaps the strongest example of Islamic fundamentalism run amok
and its ability to prevail under democratic rule occurred in Algeria
beginning in the early 1990s. Professor James A. Haught described the
horrors that befell Algeria thereafter. In 1990, the one-party governing
group in Algeria was pressured into holding multiparty elections at the city
level. The Islamic fundamentalists won handily, gaining control in over
half the Algerian cities. Fundamentalists quickly intensified their
longstanding insistence on establishing a state based on the Shariá. This is
a state where violations of religious law would lead to floggings,
amputations, and even executions.
By the early 1990s, terrifying violence was spreading rapidly in
Algeria, and martial law was imposed. As Haught noted:
When the parliamentary election was reset for late 1991, the
fundamentalists campaigned on the slogan: ‘No constitution and
no laws. The only rule is the Koran and the law of Allah.’ . . .
About 300,000 secular-minded Algerians marched through
Algiers chanting ‘no to fundamentalism.’835
The overwhelming victory of the fundamentalists in the parliamentary
election resulted in a military take-over and voiding of the election.
Representative democracy was destroyed. And the only alternative to
military rule was a theocracy. The murders and rioting cost thousands of
lives. As Haught observed, “Today, religion in Algeria is as gory as it was
3,000 years ago.”836
Secularism is the solution
Secularism is quintessentially the American way. Therefore, as seen, it
should be defended as such. It stresses religious freedom and respect for
religious belief or lack of belief. At the same time, it insists that worldly
matters (whether or not there are any other kind) must be decided without
primary reliance on any one set of theological authorities. Secularism
recognizes social complexity and the desirability of a scientific approach
and of tentativeness. It understands the desirability and the inevitability of
myriad influences on society and the positive riches of cultural diversity.
Winning the ‘Battle Royal’ 223
Ironically enough, secularism insists on defending the rights, including the
religious rights, of fundamentalists on the same grounds as the rights of
others. Unfortunately, fundamentalists do not support cultural diversity.
They often consider pluralism and diverse views as heresy and intolerance
as overtly desirable.
Fundamentalists also demonstrate consistent fear of the non-religious
as the most direct threat to the idea that religion-based control of society is
mandated by God. Fundamentalists usually condemn religious secularists
at least as fiercely as they do irreligious secularists in fundamentalist
writings and in the curricula of schools fundamentalists control. This
includes condemning “liberal” religious ideas.837 Indeed, at times liberal
believers that are at odds with fundamentalism stir more fear and thus
more anger in fundamentalists than do the irreligious.838
Religion stirs emotions, sometimes for good and sometimes for ill, but
separating the emotional effects of religion from the power centers in a
society is crucial for long-term sustainable peace. As Atlanta newspaper
columnist Colin Campbell has noted, “Religion can be murderous, as well
as civilizing and life-sustaining.” Campbell concluded that the framers of
the U.S. Constitution recognized this sometimes-paradoxical nature of
religion in establishing a secular society. American history is also replete
with examples of the need to be alert to the dangers of religious
extremism.839 As described in detail in earlier chapters, the “murderous”
aspects of religion are not always aimed at nonbelievers, or people of other
religions. Since obedience to authority is valued as perhaps the highest
virtue by fundamentalists, violence designed to compel obedience is
considered not only acceptable, but desirable.
The most basic solution for the dangers of fundamentalism is to have
and maintain a secular society, but the means for accomplishing that are
complex and never certain. The basic solution can be reached best by a
combination of:
?? political commitment
?? support for public schools
?? support for genuine scientific investigations of all matters
?? efforts to engender public respect for science and rationality, for
critical thinking, and appropriate skepticism regarding all truth
claims
?? broad educational efforts of all kinds—formal and informal,
institutional and society-wide
224 The Fundamentals of Extremism
?? a constant alertness about the need to defend the wall of separation
between church and state
?? an awareness of the emotional needs of human beings, including
fundamentalists, and
?? consistent, thoughtful, respect for the rights of all to religious
liberty.
More than a matter of life and death
What fundamentalists fail to see is that being absolute is justified only
if reality is absolutely simple and if one is absolutely right. They fail to
recognize that millions of past believers have been quite sure they were
right and that they were carrying out God’s wishes about things current
fundamentalists now reject or disagree about. They also seem not to notice
that hundreds of millions of current fundamentalists worldwide disagree
with each other.
Carrying out divine directives has often proven deadly. This was
evidenced in the infamous Inquisition,840 the trial and horrifying execution
of Michael Servetus in 1553,841 slavery in the American South before the
Civil War,842 Hitler’s holocausts,843 the persecutions of “witches,”
pogroms, the Crusades, and thousands of other examples. Nor, as has been
made clear throughout this book, are the dangers safely in the historical
past. The recent news story of a Christian mother in Tennessee, unhappy
about a Bible course being removed from a public school curriculum at a
judge’s direction, provides a tiny but clear example. She declared,
“Whoever took it out should be strung up.”844 In our secular society, a
fundamentalist like that is, usually, unable to act effectively on her instincts
and preferences—but the danger nevertheless lurks, even if she were
merely an isolated example. Unfortunately, she is not. The danger is acute
for people who are personally trapped by fundamentalism. This is so
whether it is their own fundamentalism or that of their parents or spouses.
It is also severe for the larger society wherever fundamentalist social or
political power is strong or growing.
Americans must deal with the damage caused to individuals and to
society by fundamentalists’ beliefs and practices. For individuals, solutions
need to be developed to help people to escape these extreme beliefs and
prevent them from turning to fundamentalism again. For the broader
problems, broader solutions are needed. Sociologists, psychologists, and
government representatives must study this epidemic more systematically
and intensely. They must seek solutions, not mere understanding;
Winning the ‘Battle Royal’ 225
otherwise, the devastating effects of fundamentalism will continue and are
bound to increase.
For fundamentalists starting to move away from their personal
fundamentalism, there is some hope, although resources ebb and flow. For
example, Fundamentalists Anonymous was founded in 1985 by Richard
Yao and James J. D. Luce. By 1987, its membership exceeded 30,000, and
it continued to rise thereafter.845 However, there is apparently no current
public telephone number, website, or address for the group. So, its
continuing existence is in doubt. According to Rod Evans and Irwin
Berent, there were some attempts to establish similar groups for Muslims
as early as 1988.846 There is a current website, operated by the Institute for
the Secularisation of Islamic Society (ISIS), http://www.secularislam.org/.
It promotes rationalism and secularism within Islamic societies.
Individuals seeking alternatives and escape from fundamentalism can
find help in books, on the Web, and through organizations criticizing
fundamentalism. These include the Council for Secular Humanism, the
Freedom From Religion Foundation, and others. There are also Web pages
run by religious people eager to help fundamentalists. For example,
http://home.earthlink.net/~jcmmsm/ Groups/index.html is a useful site by
former Seventh Day Adventist James C. Moyers. It directs former
members of restrictive religious groups to many resources, religious and
secular, including books and other Web pages. A site by Jeff Van
Vonderen, http://www.spiritualabuse.com/, is a conservative Christian site
for Christians suffering from “spiritual abuse” by fundamentalists.
A good example of a book specifically designed as a self-help work
for this individual need is Leaving the Fold: A Guide for Former
Fundamentalists and Others Leaving Their Religion by Australian
psychologist Marlene Winell.847 Another useful website for former
Christian fundamentalists is “Walk Away,” a part of the Institute For First
Amendment Studies, http://www.ifas.org/wa/index.html. The site
describes itself as “a place where former fundamentalists can read the
stories of other people who have left fundamentalism behind.” Also of
help to former fundamentalists is “Families in Reason,”
http://www.yourpreacher.com/FIR.html.
For those suffering from fundamentalism, sources like the above are
helpful only if they are known. So, secularists should support a wide
variety of information sources and organizations. Those groups that
provide emotional support for former fundamentalists or the children or
spouses who are at risk are of particular importance. As the chapter in this
226 The Fundamentals of Extremism
book on women makes clear, addressing emotions involves more than
merely providing solace and comfort. Fundamentalist men succeed in
oppressing fundamentalist women largely by playing on the emotional
needs of the women whether consciously or unconsciously. Countering
oppression requires emotional education for female victims, as well as
ongoing emotional support. While the primary focus should be the more
general task of establishing and maintaining a secular society, it should
also be remembered education occurs at the individual level.
The plight of fundamentalists and possible solutions for them deserve
and will receive more attention in this chapter. Before returning to the
individual level of treatment, it is necessary to summarize the larger
problem. As Kimberly Blaker pointed out, “Fundamentalism is in no way
a weak or dying force in America. Although it is not always obvious at
first glance, this movement is all around us and likely to continue
growing.”848
Frederick Clarkson, in Eternal Hostility: The Struggle Between
Theocracy and Democracy, made clear the struggle continues and is
widespread. He argued, forcefully and effectively, that “the threat posed by
the Christian Right comes not from a few extreme elements but from wellorganized
cadres, both political and paramilitary, dedicated to
overthrowing democracy.”849 Clarkson’s recommended responses in his
concluding chapter, “Defending Democracy,”850 were among the most
thoughtful and well-supported approaches available, although they were
mostly aimed at political activism. His wise prescriptions are not in conflict
with the conclusions presented here.
The advice found in Robert Boston’s Close Encounters with the
Religious Right: Journeys into the Twilight Zone of Religion and Politics
was similar and equally sound. As his subtitle implied, Boston was also
chiefly concerned with the threat of fundamentalists in the political arena.
Like Clarkson, he recommended political activism. He also suggested
research into the organizations and strategies of the politically active
fundamentalists. He said a constant campaign is needed to expose and
publicize fundamentalist values counter to the U.S. Constitution. The
ideals that have provided the greatest strengths of American society are
also necessary. His chapter, “What’s to Be Done?”851 is especially
valuable in combating the political dangers presented by fundamentalists.
The “Church of Love” versus the “Church of Law”
Not surprisingly, people who consider themselves as religious, but not
fundamentalist tend to see threats from fundamentalism in a somewhat
Winning the ‘Battle Royal’ 227
different light than do non-religious people. Religious observers often
focus on fundamentalism as primarily dangerous to religion. It is likely to
lead religious people astray. Karen Armstrong, author of the best-selling A
History of God: The 4000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and Islam,
attacked fundamentalists primarily as having oversimplified what she saw
as the rich and necessary truth of religions and of God. She wrote, for
example, “In all its forms, fundamentalism is a fiercely reductive faith.”852
Armstrong concluded History with:
Human beings cannot endure emptiness and desolation; they will
fill the vacuum by creating a new focus of meaning. The idols of
fundamentalism are not good substitutes for God; if we are to
create a vibrant new faith for the twenty-first century, we should,
perhaps, ponder the history of God for some warnings and
lessons.853
In Armstrong’s more recent book, The Battle for God, she warned, “It
[fundamentalism] represents a widespread disappointment, alienation,
anxiety, and rage that no government can safely ignore.” She added that,
there has been little success in dealing with the problem of
fundamentalism.854 Armstrong argued the answer to this is not coercion or
suppression. Such only leads to retaliation and greater extremism.
“Fundamentalists see conspiracy everywhere and are sometimes possessed
by a rage that seems demonic,”855 Armstrong noted. We must keep in
mind, she explained, fundamentalism and its theologies and ideologies are
a result of fundamentalist fears. Secularists find excitement in the modern
world, but it “seems Godless, drained of meaning, and even satanic to a
fundamentalist.”856
From a psychological standpoint, the paranoid and extreme thoughts
of vengeance common among fundamentalists “would undoubtedly be
diagnosed as [a] disturb[ance],” says Armstrong. Therefore, reasoning is
an unrealistic way to resolve the fears they hold. So, solutions must start by
recognizing “the depth of this neurosis. . . .”857 Fundamentalists, she points
out, preach exclusion, hatred, and sometimes violence. Yet, secularists
have also played a role in the rise of fundamentalist rage by, if not secular
hostility, at least a lack of respect for religion and its followers. Therefore,
secularists should start by learning to empathize with fundamentalists’
needs, fears, and anxieties.858 Empathy for and acceptance of the rights of
fundamentalists are necessary and desirable. Whatever Armstrong’s views,
228 The Fundamentals of Extremism
it should not mean sitting back and watching them transform our
government into a theocracy or even one that tramples the rights of others.
Randall Balmer, Professor of Religion and a “colonial historian,”859
was raised in an evangelical household. He confessed he has neither
embraced it altogether nor rejected it altogether, given what he found to be
“a tradition that is at once rich in theological insights and mired in
contradictions.”860 In “Winning the Country Back: The Ironies of the
Religious Right,” in his book Blessed Assurance, Balmer reported at some
length on the dangers of fundamentalism and the religious right. This
included in such diverse arenas as the rights of women and religious
liberty.
Balmer noted that fundamentalist Baptists have turned their backs on
Baptist heritage when they oppose the separation of church and state.
Balmer presented an interesting conclusion why this has happened:
My only guess is that they no longer believe they can compete in
the free marketplace of religion. That is, they feel so overwhelmed
by the successive waves of multiculturalism the United States has
seen in the twentieth century that they seek some kind of
advantage.861
This summarizes succinctly both the need to convince fundamentalists of
the value of separation of church and state and the great difficulty in so
convincing them.
Bishop John Shelby Spong, the famous and controversial
Episcopalian bishop, has insisted that fundamentalists are a serious threat
to understanding the Bible. They are a threat, he wrote, deserving to be
taken seriously, and a threat to religion itself. As Spong argued, mainline
Christians must respond to fundamentalists or “the ignorance of mainline
Christians will increase and the absurdity of fundamentalist Christians will
reach a new crescendo.” He described the approach of fundamentalists as
holding the Bible in the “clutches of a mindless literalism.”862 Spong has
consistently presented fundamentalism as a real and serious threat to sound
Christianity. He has not been shy about his criticism of fundamentalism.
For example, he wrote, “A major function of fundamentalist religion is to
bolster deeply insecure and fearful people.”863
Fundamentalists are a real threat to both “liberal” Christians and to any
others who realize that only a secular society will be stable and protect the
religious liberty of fundamentalists, mainline believers, and the nonreligious.
Lloyd J. Averill described himself as “a Christian of evangelical
liberal persuasion.”864 He condemned fundamentalists as essentially unWinning
the ‘Battle Royal’ 229
American, noting fundamentalists are hostile to the genuine American
political heritage even as they distort what it is. He also described
fundamentalists, despite claims of being conservative in their views, as
being eager in fact for radical change.865
Averill is a good example of an important truth. Secularists should not
turn their backs on religious Christians as allies in the attempts to solve the
problems fundamentalism presents. Averill did not agree with some
features of separation of church and state that some strict separationists
would want. Still, he argued effectively for an ongoing commitment to the
basic ideal of religious liberty as quintessentially American.866
Liberal Episcopalian Bruce Bawer, in Stealing Jesus: How
Fundamentalism Betrays Christianity, wrote: “Behind the
fundamentalists’ strident assertions of certitude was, in most cases, a
grievous spiritual emptiness.”867 “If you want to destroy the idea of a
Church of Love once and for all," said Bawer, "you would target the real
Jesus and attach his name instead to a vengeful, bloodthirsty monster. This
is what legalistic Christianity [fundamentalism] does at its most
extreme.”868
Bawer’s conclusions were similar to Armstrong’s. And he offered
more of an impassioned plea for a return to true, loving, open-ended
Christianity (the “Church of Love”) than any general solutions to
fundamentalism. Still, Bawer, like Averill, Balmer, and Spong, is an
example of a Christian who fundamentalists would likely target as their
enemy in the “battle royal,” as much as they would target non-religious
citizens.
Another Christian writer, the Roman Catholic Lorene Duquin,
stressed that fundamentalism is emotional and difficult for Catholics, even
Catholic leaders, to contend with. She complained fundamentalists are so
rigid and pre-programmed that arguing with them verges on being useless.
Rage and emotional considerations cloud fundamentalists’ judgment and
rationality.869
She quoted a “Msgr. William Gallagher” as saying:
I have all the answers to the things that the Fundamentalists
preach . . . but in most cases I’m not dealing with people who are
open to exploration of the truth. They have been trained to believe
standard answers and criticism. They won’t move from it. You
can say anything you want, but it doesn’t do a bit of good because
230 The Fundamentals of Extremism
they don’t enter into the discussion with openness and good
will.870
Some may find the Monsignor’s complaint ironic. It is not difficult to
argue that Catholics also, “have been trained to believe standard answers
and criticism.” But his complaint summed up a major difficulty for all who
want to counter fundamentalism.
Humanist perspectives
A variety of solutions or analyses of the difficulties of finding
solutions for the threats from fundamentalism was included among the
essays in Neo-Fundamentalism: The Humanist Response.871 Vern
Bullough’s essay on Islamic fundamentalism in this work was written at
least a dozen years ago. But it accurately predicted the great difficulty
secularists would have contending with Islamic fundamentalists in the
Soviet Union and elsewhere. He predicted then that secularists would find
Islamic fundamentalism especially hostile to religious liberty. And the
problems generated would be thereby intractable.872
In the same collection, Alberto Hidalgo Tuñon also expressed
pessimism about countering fundamentalism. He explained:
philosophical and scientific criticism can do little to erode the
great social influence of fundamentalism supported by powerful
pressure groups—sometimes entire churches and political
parties—by the sympathy of the mass media and, particularly, by
popular gullibility.873
Philosopher Paul Kurtz, in the opening essay of Neo-Fundamentalism,
provided the broadest prescriptions for solving the threats of
fundamentalism of all sorts. It is advice that still deserves to be followed.
He implored:
I believe that it is important that we embark on a major
educational outreach worldwide, but especially in the third
world—Latin America, Africa, and Asia. We cannot remain
content to espouse our principles politely in the quiet cloisters of
our own societies, but must meet head on the massive challenges
in the developing countries of the world.874
Winning the ‘Battle Royal’ 231
He added that secularists should refuse to “mute their strong critiques
of the Bible, the Qur’an, the Book of Mormon, and other so-called sacred
documents.” Secularists should not hesitate to proselytize against the
proselytizers.875 Wrote Kurtz:
We need to make sense out of the universe in which we live. But
we can do so only by testing our hypotheses and theories by the
rigorous methods of science. We can only do so if we recognize
that the high priests of the past are inadequate to the task. It is not
the theologians or mystics who will point the way, but the
astrophysicists and astronomers.876
Gerald A. Larue stressed, in that same collection, secularists must be
committed to genuine education in the broadest sense—not limited to what
happens in schools, but education across all the institutions of society. He
urged defeating the “ultra-right-wing efforts” of fundamentalists. By
spreading sound information and analysis as widely as possible, this can be
done. Such an effort should include information on the methods by which
secular conclusions are reached, analyses of our ethical understanding, a
constant awareness of fundamentalist threats, and consistent refusal to give
in to fundamentalist pressures.877
The solution to the dangers of fundamentalism many would like best
to see is universal rationality. Thus, universal rejection of fundamentalism
of all stripes should be sought. As Kurtz has quipped, “Religion is all right,
so long as you don’t take it too seriously.”878 Fundamentalists are precisely
those who do take it too seriously. Trying to convince them not to can play
directly into the hands of fundamentalist leaders. Many tell their followers
any opposition is the work of the devil. If universal rationality is ever to be
achieved, education in the broadest possible sense is what will make it
happen, as both Kurtz and Larue have argued.
However, it is irrational, alas, to believe all humans will adopt rational,
fulfilling lives any time in the near future. Real, practical antidotes are
needed for the very painful dangers that fundamentalism presents.
Therefore, solutions must be more limited than attempting to achieve
complete universal rationality, even while striving for something close to
it. Americans must not sell themselves and society short. Goals must be
quite broad, while recognizing they will be far from easy to effect and
sustain.
232 The Fundamentals of Extremism
The solutions that have worked, moderately well, are still the best ones
available; they are a secular society and religious freedom. But these
solutions are under great pressure. They cannot be expected to persist as
solutions unless ongoing efforts to maintain and strengthen them are
continued. A secular society, with religious freedom for all, will persist, but
only one way. It must be secured by a consensus and a constitution
demanding religious neutrality from the government at all levels. The
emotional power of religion, for good or ill, must be scrupulously kept
separate from the great practical power of government. Only then can
fundamentalism be prevented from ruining humanity.
Views from other windows (anthropologists, philosophers,
demographers, and former fundamentalists)
The great popular anthropology writer, Marvin Harris, in Our Kind:
Who We Are, Where We Came From, Where We Are Going, denies all
things about religion are so far understandable in anthropological terms.
He holds out hope, however, for eventually explaining all the workings of
religion.879 In addition, he summarizes much of what is now understood in
ways that suggest possible insights about fundamentalists. He argues, for
example, human understanding of and development of religion, while
always complex, has always involved exchanges. It has not merely been
obedience to the perceived directives from supernatural beings.
According to Harris:
one impulse has been salient since the beginning of animistic
thought [the first stage of what Harris identified as religion
rather than mere superstition]. Our kind has always wanted
gods and other spirit beings to provide us with certain kinds
of benefits. . . . Most frequently, the sought-after benefits have
been quite tangible and mundane: recovery from illness,
success in trading ventures, rains to water parched crops,
victory on the battlefield. Requests for immortality,
resurrection, and eternal bliss in heaven may seem less crass,
but they nonetheless involve the gods in the delivery of goods
and services. Even when sought-after benefits consist of
nothing more than help in acting and thinking in conformity
with the wishes of the deity or in achieving inner peace,
however lofty our motives, it is a service that we seek. Has
there ever been a religion that did not ask what the gods could
Winning the ‘Battle Royal’ 233
do for the humans as well as what the humans could do for
the gods? I don’t think so.880
To persuade a fundamentalist to give up his absolutism, for the sake
and freedom of others, there has to be a powerful exchange available.
Emotional needs must be addressed as well. If fundamentalists are to be
persuaded to limit the ways in which they do “battle royal,” secularists
must at least find ways to engage them in real debate. They and their allies
will not change nor be deterred. That is, unless exchanges of ideas can
occur. Philosopher Keith Parsons has remarked, in Why I Am Not A
Christian (his title intentionally echoed the earlier famous book by the
same title by Bertrand Russell), on the difficulty of such debate:
Can belief argue with unbelief or only preach to it? When
worldviews clash, is rational debate possible, or only a hostile
exchange of epithets and rhetoric? Positions too far apart cannot
find enough shared ground even to begin a debate, and there is no
question that believers and unbelievers often simply talk past one
another.881
Parsons concludes, “fruitful communication is possible.” Although he
adds, with a parenthetical qualification: “I think that Christians and
nonbelievers share enough background beliefs, values, and standards to
engage in fruitful debate . . . (though some of the wilder effusions of
creationists and fundamentalists tempt me into doubt).”882 Parsons’
comments about believers and Christians apply equally well to the needs
for and the difficulties of exchanges between fundamentalists and
secularists.
The state of religion in the world and in the U.S. is complex, and there
is every indication that the complexity—and the dangers—will only
increase. Toby Lester noted, in an essay, that the religious landscape is
changing. In fact, so much so that “what is now dismissed as a
fundamentalist sect, a fanatical cult, or a mushy New Age fad could be the
next big thing.”883 Lester quoted David Barrett, editor of the World
Christian Encyclopedia. Barrett concluded there are “nine thousand and
nine hundred distinct and separate religions in the world. And they are
increasing by two or three new religions every day.”884
Lester also noted what British sociologist Colin Campbell wrote many
years ago about fundamentalist growth. Campbell said secularization itself
234 The Fundamentals of Extremism
could well be an important force in generating hardier varieties of
fundamentalist religions to flourish. This could result from reduced
influences of “established” religions.885
The number of religions continue to increase, and fundamentalists
gain more power worldwide. Therefore, the problems caused by
fundamentalism will increase, and the difficulties in solving those
problems will expand. City University of New York staff Barry A.
Kosmin, Egon Mayer, and Ariela Keysar carried out a recent study,
“American Religious Identification Survey 2001.” Their findings
suggested that only sixteen percent “described their outlook as secular or
somewhat secular.”886 The context was, however, to ask respondents to
choose between being religious and secular—not between fundamentalism
and secularism as defined in this book.
Their study did not measure the number or percentage of Americans
who consider themselves to be fundamentalists. But it seems reasonable to
conclude the number is no higher than thirty-seven percent. That is the
figure who reported themselves as “religious” as opposed to “somewhat
religious” (thirty-eight percent), “somewhat secular” (six percent), or
“secular” (ten percent). Another nine percent were tabulated as “Don’t
Know” or “Refused.”887 Respondents were also asked for identification
with specific religions in this survey. In response to this item, 14.1 percent
identified themselves as having “No Religion.” A small proportion of these
chose a label such as “atheist,” “agnostic,” or “humanist.” Another 5.4
percent surveyed refused to answer.888
The transition of moving away from fundamentalism can be
emotional and difficult. Several collections of essays have made this clear.
Dan Barker, a leader of the Freedom From Religion Foundation, started
his career as a fundamentalist preacher well before he was an adult. Many
of the essays in his Losing Faith in Faith889 described the sometimespainful
trip away from the fundamentalist life. In Leaving the Fold:
Testimonies of Former Fundamentalists,890 Edward Babinski presented
more than thirty personal tales of former fundamentalists, including
Barker, who then became liberal religionists or non-believers. And
Amazing Conversions: Why Some Turn to Faith and Others Abandon
Religion891 described transitions both towards and away from
fundamentalism as well as other religious worldviews. A slightly
oversimplified summary of the thesis of the latter would be that moving to
religion is more likely to be based on emotion. On the other hand, leaving
religion, especially fundamentalist religion, is more likely to be an
intellectual, rational journey.892
Winning the ‘Battle Royal’ 235
The detailed testimonies of former fundamentalists show the paths
leading them away from fundamentalism were quite diverse. Idiosyncratic
aspects were seen throughout. No summary of those stories can really do
justice to the depth and richness found in books like Leaving the Fold:
Testimonies of Former Fundamentalists or Losing Faith in Faith. The
reader who wants the full story must go to those sources. However, there
were some commonalities. They included the authors’ fears as they faced
up to what just did not, in the end, make good sense. Many grappled with
the need for social support, which was sometimes available from
unexpected sources. Other times it was painfully denied from sources they
had expected to be able to rely on. Usually, there was also real relief and a
sense of self-empowerment from the realization that escape was
possible.893
Two examples from Leaving the Fold: Testimonies of Former
Fundamentalists will at least suggest some of the complexities of these
transitions for individuals. David Montoya went from being a
fundamentalist Baptist to being a Baptist pastor of a different sort in
Kansas. His struggles with fundamentalism were quite personal and
painful, both for him and for his wife. This was not unlike most of the
others offering testimonies. But Montoya also experienced a different
order of difficulty. There was backbiting, vicious politics in the Southern
Baptist Convention. It was all done in the name of Jesus and of defending
the Bible by fundamentalists. Montoya is still worried about
fundamentalism. He wrote of:
the creeping darkness that seems to be enveloping America and
the rest of the world, a darkness that is becoming ever more
diabolical as it seeks to merge its religious-political system with
the political system of secular government.894
Another example of a former fundamentalist is Farrell Till, who
testified in Babinski’s book. Till was a fundamentalist Church of Christ
preacher, a believer in the inerrancy of the Bible, but also a serious student
of the Bible. He continued to study the Bible while he represented his
church as a missionary in France, to “free people there from the heresy of
Catholicism.” This led him, after a long struggle, to realize that Biblical
inerrancy is in fact not defensible. He left Christianity and his church and
became an agnostic. Still, he continued to study the Bible diligently and is
now editor of The Skeptical Review, a journal devoted exclusively to
236 The Fundamentals of Extremism
examining Biblical literalism. Till is probably the nation’s leading expert
on the impossibility of maintaining that the Bible is literally inerrant. He
shared:
I became concerned about the resurgence of Christian
fundamentalism and the trend in government to curry its favor.
Events in Iran and other Middle Eastern countries demonstrate
what can happen once religious fundamentalists gain political
control.895
All of these transition testimonies and analyses suggest that leaving
fundamentalism behind will be difficult for individuals and societies. All of
them also strongly support solutions including education and social
support networks. Finally, they support a spirited defense of the separation
of church and state at every turn.
Secularism as solution: the American way
Anthropologists believe religion seems to be a basic human need.
Thus, it is not easy to rationally question or change religiously-based
beliefs. Philosophers advise of the great difficulty of even being able to
hold a useful exchange between fundamentalists and rationalists. Those
converted tell of the wrenching emotional journeys to change.
“Mainstream” or “liberal” believers seem to be at a loss for solutions to
fundamentalism. Journalists, demographers, and religious historians say
religiosity, especially fundamentalist religion, is exploding, rather than
fading. It certainly is, at least as compared to other, calmer periods in our
history.
From every quarter it is learned that fundamentalism is likely to persist
and probably even likely to flourish. Even those who fear it the most and
are most eager for solutions agree that no solution may be available,
certainly no simple one. Yet, what makes turning away from
fundamentalism so difficult? The social pressure of family and friends
plays a crucial role. It may reach hysteria because of a certainty that “the
backslider” will be doomed to hell following death. There is also the
painful upheaval that can often result. Because of the supreme importance
fundamentalists place on their religious views, the person fleeing
fundamentalism may be forced into moving his home or even divorcing a
fundamentalist spouse. There is also the need to find all new interests and
friends. Formerly, as a fundamentalist, those interests had likely revolved
almost exclusively around church activities and members.896
Winning the ‘Battle Royal’ 237
Reiterated, the solutions, though difficult to achieve, will come only by
defending a secular society. That defense must consist of a whole series of
related approaches. Secularists must engage politically and must be willing
to pay attention to and actively commit to political solutions. Public
education, from kindergarten through college, has to have active support.
And secularists must expose the consistent opposition of fundamentalists
to public schools. As noted in earlier chapters, opposition to public
education is widespread. It is yet another example of the anti-American
nature of fundamentalism. General, ongoing education of the public must
include effective use of the broadcast media by secularists. It is specifically
necessary to counter the extensive use of these media by fundamentalist
organizations.
Genuine science, unfettered by religious barriers or anyone’s
insistence on predetermined conclusions, has to be supported. Serious,
sustained efforts to increase the public’s respect for science and for reason
must be undertaken. As a part of that, critical thinking skills and healthy
skepticism have to be championed and encouraged. This is both in schools
and in the media. And, finally, violations of church-state separation must
be effectively held in check.
We cannot forget that human beings, including fundamentalists, have
complex emotional and social needs. These needs must be met. Respect
for religious liberty demands respect and freedom for those who hold
fundamentalist ideas even as we combat their beliefs. This, also, must be
remembered.
For secularism to succeed, a commitment has to be made to broaden
educational efforts of all kinds—formal and informal, institutional and
society-wide. Secularization cannot be maintained if all the elements above
are not understood and acted on.
It is well worth noting, as described in the earlier chapter on social
implications, that fundamentalist organizations themselves commonly
declare their devotion to “religious liberty.” Many of these organizations
are quite simply using a sort of double-speak. Their only interest in and
commitment to religious liberty is on behalf of those who agree with them,
their fellow fundamentalists. Their loud concerns about religious liberty are
most often thinly-disguised efforts to use government power to defend
their own religious ideas. As covered in an earlier chapter, many
fundamentalist leaders repeatedly claim conservative Christians’ liberties
have been violated. But they never manage to show actual evidence of
such.
238 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Logic and experience indicate that all humans tend to believe they are
right about their religious views. Even agnostics are often sure they are
right about the impossibility of anyone knowing; as one bumper sticker put
it, “Militant Agnostic: I Don’t Know and You Don’t Either!” The key
question is therefore not who is right about religion. Nor is it how to
succeed in persuading others who is right. Rather the question is how to
live with each other in disagreement. It may not be necessary to persuade a
fundamentalist to give up most of his fundamental religious beliefs. It may
only be necessary to persuade him or her to join everyone else in agreeing
on a prior value: liberty. But this borders on being an unattainable goal.
Fundamentalists are often convinced it is sacrilege even to talk of a value
higher than being fierce defenders of the fundamentals. Those imbued with
the absolute certainty of their conclusions and the belief those conclusions
come from God will never be easy to persuade of the importance of liberty
for all.
Persuasion and education are, however, the only solutions with a
chance to succeed. Where changes of mind cannot be accomplished, it is
crucial that laws defending separation of church and state be enforced.
Religious fundamentalists, like members of any other group, must be made
to understand, preferably through education, that religious liberty is either
for all or for none. As Thomas Jefferson wrote, nearly 200 years ago, “It
behooves every man who values liberty of conscience for himself, to resist
invasions of it in the case of others; or their case may, by change of
circumstances, become his own.”897 Every member of society must be
educated about the truth and importance of Jefferson’s statement. This is
important whether one is a fundamentalist or a thorough secularist.
For individual fundamentalists who are suffering because of their
beliefs, there are answers if the sufferers are willing to seek them. There is
a more general solution for many of the dangers posed by fundamentalism
that can work even for most fundamentalists while they remain
fundamentalists. It is the great American solution of which President John
Adams wrote:
Although the detail of the formation of the American
governments is at present little known or regarded either in
Europe or in America. . . . [i]t will never be pretended that any
persons employed in that service had interviews with the gods, or
were in any degree under the influence of Heaven, more than
those at work upon ships or houses, or laboring in merchandise or
agriculture; it will forever be acknowledged that these
Winning the ‘Battle Royal’ 239
governments were contrived merely by the use of reason and the
senses.898
The United States established the first significant secular government
designed to lead the first truly secular society in history. In spite of this,
many of its citizens and leaders, then as now, were religious individuals.
Being so diplomatic that basic truth is avoided cannot be afforded. Those
who are unswervingly devoted to fundamentalism are hostile to
democracy. Thus they are literally un-American.
Reaching individual victims of fundamentalism, such as women
trapped in abusive marriages, or children who cannot protect themselves,
will never be easy. Yet, in a firmly defended secular society that strongly
supports education in critical thinking, even those victims will have a
chance. The exact reasons the U.S. came under attack in September 2001
may never be known. But it is likely at least part of the reason is that the
U.S. is a secular nation. It is a modern nation and therefore perceived to be
a direct threat to fundamentalist Islam. A less likely but still possible reason
may be the inaccurate perception, despite Christian fundamentalist claims,
that the U.S. is a “Christian nation.”
A secular government that does not make religious decisions for its
citizens is one based on ideas like those of Thomas Jefferson as he
acknowledged:
The legitimate powers of government extend to such acts only as
are injurious to others. But it does me no injury for my neighbor to
say there are twenty gods, or no god. It neither picks my pocket
nor breaks my leg.899
As Michael Buckner wrote, in “The UnChristian Roots of the Fourth
of July:”
The theory of government presented in the Declaration of
Independence . . . represents a radical break with Judeo-Christian
traditions that went back thousands of years. Government, it
asserts, derives its powers not from the will of God but from the
consent of the governed. From being an instrument of God’s
wrath, government is demoted to an invention of human beings,
to be altered at the will of its creators. Our Constitution goes even
further than the Declaration in its godlessness, not even bothering
240 The Fundamentals of Extremism
with a ceremonial invocation of God or ‘Divine Providence’ in
vesting ultimate authority in ‘We, the people.’”900
This solution, a secular society with an insistence on honoring the rights
and beliefs of religious fundamentalists along with those of everyone else,
is the American value most worth defending, bragging about, and
spreading. The idea belongs to no religion, but it benefits all except those
who insist on utter absolutism. It tolerates all except those who will tolerate
no disagreement whatever.
So, is the solution to persuade fundamentalists to give up their
religion? Well, it would help. It is difficult to imagine, after all, secular
humanists killing those who disagree. But, no, it is certainly not that
simple. Most modern Christians do not take the Bible seriously or literally
when it says that nonbelievers should be destroyed. Many Muslims,
likewise, do not take their sacred texts that seriously or simplistically.
Fanaticism can be inspired by ideas other than religion—leaders as diverse
as Stalin and Pol Pot proved that—but mass murderers have one thing in
common: certainty. It is a blind fanatical devotion to ideas, devotion so
strong the fanatics are willing to kill and die for them.
America’s power and strength is first in its people, but it is also in the
inventing of and persisting in devotion to a secular government, one where
all can take religion or irreligion as seriously as they wish, short of enlisting
the government on one’s side or killing those who disagree. A secular
society is not one where no religion is allowed; it must be instead one
where all religions and philosophies have to compete in the marketplace of
ideas for individual support.
A secular society, not a fundamentalist society, is the only kind where
religious freedom is available for all or secure for any. All who are in the
majority at any particular historical moment should share in a commitment
to minority rights, if only because tomorrow they may no longer be in the
majority. Secular means neutral regarding religion. That can be difficult for
followers of any religion, or even the irreligious, to accept.
Jesus is reported to have said, in Matthew 12:30, “He that is not with
me is against me.” Nevertheless, official neutrality is the only way to avoid
seriously risking a return of the Holy Crusades, pogroms, oppression,
persecution, and, almost certainly, terrorism as well. These calamities will
befall fundamentalists as well as committed secularists, and the need to
educate everyone on this is urgent and continuing. Those who understand
that need must not wait for others to do the work, which includes political
action in support of education and secularism.
Winning the ‘Battle Royal’ 241
As has previously been noted, the education that has to occur must be
both broad and specific. It must include an unabashed, unrelenting counter
to the false propaganda of the fundamentalists themselves. It must also
include a clear and accurate indictment of those fundamentalists who think
they are above the law, who believe the rights of others are inferior to their
own, and who are willing to use violence to further their own beliefs.
It will never be easy, but Americans must not rest. We must not fail to
persuade everyone, fundamentalist, secular humanist, and everyone in
every other category, that a secular society with firm separation of church
and state is necessary. The cost of failure is severe. People who are
absolutely sure about the need to protect the fundamentals of their religion
can do terrible things. They can even do things like flying airplanes loaded
with jet fuel and innocent passengers into buildings that symbolize and
empower secular societies, buildings filled with people freely living
peaceful lives.
242
Notes
Chapter 1 Notes
1 James C. Dobson, Children at Risk, 27.
2 Philip Smucker and Michael Stachell, “Hearts and Minds,” U.S. News & World Report, 15
October 2001, [online] [cited 15 October 2001]; available at
http://www.usnews.com/usnews/issue/011015/ideas/taliban.htm.
3 James Dobson, Parenting Isn’t For Cowards (Word Publishing, 1997), 104, cited in Albert J.
Menendez, Three Voices of Extremism: Charles Colson, James Dobson, D. James Kennedy
(Silver Spring, MD: Americans for Religious Liberty, 1977), 52.
4 Dobson, Parenting, 106.
5 “’White Rose’ Activists Preach Violence Against Abortion Clinics, Gays,” Church & State
April 2001 [online] [cited 20 October 2002]; available at
http://www.au.org/churchstate/cs4016.htm.
6 “’White Rose.”
7 “’White Rose.”
8 David C. Trosch, letter to Congress, 16 July 1994, quoted in Maxine Parshall, “The ‘Reverend’
David C. Trosch to ‘Dear Congressman,’” Perspectives Fall 1994, 1-3.
9 Barbara M. Jones, Libraries, Access, and Intellectual Freedom: Developing Policies for Public
and Academic Libraries (Chicago: American Library Association, 1999), 84-85.
10 Kimberly Blaker, “U.S. breeds its own religious extremists,” San Francisco Examiner, 20
September 2001.
11 Bill Baird and Joni Scott, “A test of our resolve: the religious right’s attack on freedom,” The
Humanist, (September/October 2000, cited in WilsonSelect Plus_FT [database online] [cited 4
June 2001]), 14-21, quoted in Kimberly Blaker, “U.S. breeds its own religious extremists,” San
Francisco Examiner, 20 September 2001.
12 Blaker, “U.S. breeds.”
13 “Catholic Church Blamed for Backing ‘Clones’ of Islamic Terrorists,” The Catalyst
November 2001, 11.
14 “Catholic Church.”
15 “Catholic Church.”
16 “Catholic Church.”
17 “Catholic Church.”
18 “Catholic Church Blamed for Backing ‘Clones’ of Islamic Terrorists,” The Catalyst, Catholic
League for Religious and Civil Rights website, 21 September 2001 [online][cited 22 September
2001]; available at
http://www.catholicleague.org/01press_releases/pr0301.htm#CATHOLIC%20CHURCH%20B
LAMED%20FOR%20BACKING%20“CLONES”%20OF%20ISLAMIC%20TERRORISTS.
19 Michael Stoll, letter to anonymous, 14 November 2001.
20 A freelance production assistant who briefly did some work for Mag Rack shared this
information when we spoke over the phone. It is noted that, according to a letter from Mag Rack
in response to my attempts to follow up with the freelance production assistant, the freelancer
did not have the authority to speak on behalf of Mag Rack, Rainbow Media, or “American
Catholic,” nor did the freelancer claim to have been speaking on any of their behalf during our
telephone conversation.
21 Michael Connor of Mag Rack, the video-on-demand service from Rainbow Media that
includes “American Catholic,” letter to the author 22 October 2002.
22 “Palm Beach Post Justifies Anti Catholicism,” The Catalyst, March 2002 [online][cited 1
March 2002]; available at http://www.catholicleague.org/catalyst/2002_catalyst/3-
02.htm#NAPA%20VALLEY%20MUSEUM%20DISPLAYS%20DEFECATING%20POPE.
Notes 243
23 “Catholic League’s 2001 Annual Report on Anti-Catholicism,” [online] [cited 17 October
2002]; available at http://www.catholicleague.org/2001report/media2001.html.
24 Michael Stoll, letter to Kimberly Blaker, 25 February 2002.
25 Jones, Libraries, 84-85.
26 “About AD/HD,” Children and Adults with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder website
[online] [cited 19 May 2002]; available at
http://204.29.171.80/framer/navigation.asp?charset=utf-8&cc=US&frameid=1565&lc=enus&
providerid=262&realname=CHADD&uid=1725424&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.chadd.or
g%2F.
27 Andrew Adesman, “Does My Child Need Ritalin?” Attention! April 2001, 38.
28 T. Dwaine McCallon, “If he outgrew it, what is he doing in my prison?” National Attention
Deficit Disorder Association website [online] [cited 25 April 2002]; available at
http://add.about.com/gi/dynamic/offsite.htm?site=http%3A%2F%2Fadd.org%2Fimages2%2Fpr
ison.htm.
29 “CHADD Applauds International Consensus Statement on AD/HD issued by Nation’s
Leading Clinicians,” Children and Adults with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder website
[online] [cited 25 April 2002]; available at
http://chadd.org/press.cfm?cat_id=10&subcat_id=29&press_year=2002&press_id=27
30 “General Information,” The Mackinac Center for Public Policy website [online][cited 22
February 2002]; available at http://www.mackinac.org/join/default.asp?ID=1542.
31 “Purpose & Mission,” The Mackinac Center for Public Policy website [online][cited 22
February 2002]; available at http://www.mackinac.org/1662.
32 Curt Guyette, “Non-Partisan – Not!” Metrotimes.com [online] [cited 25 April 2002]; available
at http://www.johnengler.com/002.html.
33 James Ferency, Mackinac Center for Public Policy Watch [online] [cited 25 April 2002];
available at http://scnc.mindnet.org/~ferencyj/forward.html.
34 Terry L. Coomer, “Is Ritalin the Answer?” For the Love of the Family Ministries website
[online] [cited 27 June 2002]; available at
http://www.churchpages.org/fortheloveofthefamily/articles/isritalintheanswer.htm.
35 “Known Funding of the Mackinac Center,” The Mackinac Center for Public Policy Watch
website [online] [cited 27 January 2002]; available at
http://scnc.mindnet.org/~ferencyj/funding.html.
36 “Known Funding.”
37 “The Mother Jones 400: Richard M. DeVos Sr. (with Helen),” MotherJones.com, 5 March
2001, [online] [cited 28 January 2002]; available at
http://www.motherjones.com/web_exclusives/special_reports/mojo_400/12_devos.html.
38 “The Mother Jones 400.”
39 “Council for National Policy: (CNP) and Scientology,” Cephas Ministry Inc. website
[online][cited 27 January 2002]; available at http://newsletters.cephasministry.com/ncp8.html.
40 “A Pledge to Children and Families,” Citizens Commission on Human Rights website
[online][cited 27 January 2002]; available at http://www.cchr.org/educate/aptcaf1.htm.
41 “A Pledge.”
42 Mary Eberstadt, “Why Ritalin Rules,” Policy Review, Heritage Foundation website [online]
[cited 27 June 2002]; available at
http://www.heritage.org/policyreview/apr99/eberstadt_print.html.
Chapter 2 Notes
43 “Terry Preaches Theocratic Rule ‘No More Mister Nice Christian’ is the Pro-Life Activist’s
Theme for the ‘90’s,” The News-Sentinel (Fort Wayne, IN), 16 August 1993, quoted in B. A.
244 The Fundamentals of Extremism
Robinson, “Reacting to Religious Diversity: Religious Exclusivism, Pluralism, and
Inclusivism,” Ontario Consultants on Religious Tolerance website [online] [cited 28 May 2002];
available at http://www.religioustolerance.org/rel_plur.htm.
44 Jeffrey S. Victor, “Forecasting the Future of Religion: The Next 50 Years,” The Humanist
May/June 1996, 21.
45 Richard J. Gelles and Ann Levine, Sociology: An Introduction, 5thed. (New York: McGraw-
Hill, 1995), 470.
46 Gelles, Sociology, 465.
47 Richard Swift, “Fundamentalism: Reaching for Certainty,” New Internationalist August 1990.
Replicated in SIRS CD-ROM, 7.
48 Swift, “Fundamentalism,” 7.
49 Victor, “Forecasting,” 21.
50 Associated Press, “Political Religious Extremists Reject the King James Version of the
Bible,” Marriage Project-Hawaii website [online] [cited 22 April 2002]; available at
http://members.tripod.com/~MPHAWAII/Religion/KingJamesBible.htm.
51Cheryl Mullenax, "Akhenaten, Visionary or Heretic?" Akhenaten, The Sun King website
[online] [cited 5 March 2002]; available at http://www.angelfire.com/ny/akhenaten/index1.html.
52 Swift, “Fundamentalism,” 4.
53 Michael Lienesch, Redeeming America Piety & Politics in the New Christian Right (Chapel
Hill, NC: University of North Carolina Press, 1992), 247-48.
54 Field, “Oliver Cromwell, Hero or Villain?” Schoolhistory.co.uk website [online] [cited 28
March 2002]; available at
http://www.schoolhistory.co.uk/year8links/civilwar/Cromwellheroorvillain.
55 “The Mayflower Compact,” The University of Oklahoma Law Center-A Chronology of U.S.
Historical Documents website [online] [cited 16 April 2002]; available at
http://www.law.ou.edu/hist/mayflow.html.
56 “The Mayflower Compact,” The History Place-American Revolution website [online] [cited
16 April 2002]; available at
http://www.historyplace.com/unitedstates/revolution/mayflower.htm.
57“The Constitution of the United States of America,” The University of Oklahoma College of
law-A Chronology of U.S. Historical Documents website[online] [cited 21 March 2002];
available at http://www.law.ou.edu/hist/constitution/.
58 Edward M. Buckner and Michael E. Buckner, eds., Quotations That Support the Separation of
State and Church, 2nd ed. (Atlanta: Atlanta Freethought Society, 1995), 3.
59 Alan Brinkley, American History: A Survey, Volume I: To 1877, 9th ed. (New York:
McGraw-Hill, Inc., 1995), 86-7.
60 Brinkley, American History, 86-7.
61 William Martin, With God on Our Side: The Rise of the Religious Right in America (New
York: Broadway Books, 1996), 2.
62 David S. Noss, A History of the World Religions, 10th ed. (Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice
Hall, 1999), 518.
63 Noss, A History, 518.
64 Brinkley, American, 86-7.
65 Brinkley, American, 86-7.
66 Brinkley, American, 86-7.
67 Martin, With God, 3.
68 Martin, With God, 3.
69 Martin, With God, 3.
70 Martin, With God, 3-4.
71 Brinkley, American, 188-89.
72 Martin, With God, 4.
73 Martin, With God, 4-5.
74 Martin, With God, 4-5.
Notes 245
75 Michael S. Horton, “The Legacy of Charles Finney,” in Premise [electronic journal], (Vol.II
No. 3 27 March 1995 [cited 5 April 2002] ); available at
http://capo.org/premise/95/march/horton-f.html.
76 Martin, With God, 5-6
77 Martin, With God, 4.
78 Martin, With God, 5-6.
79 Noss, A History, 521.
80 Lienesch, Redeeming, 247-248.
81 Lattin, “Apocalypse,” 4.
82 Noss, A History, 522.
83 Noss, A History, 522
84 Noss, A History, 522.
85 Lattin, “Apocalypse,” 32-38.
86 Scott Appleby, “Unflinching Faith: What Fires Up the World’s Fundamentalists?” in U.S.
Catholic, December 1989, 1, quoted in “Fundamentalism and Its Motivation,” Sphaira-A
Symbol of Unity website [online] [cited 24 February 1998]; available at
http://incolor.inetnebr.com/mdavis/fundmntl.htm.
87 Lattin, “Apocalypse,” 3.
88 Jim Strayer, Telephone interview by author, 2 June 2002.
89 John Shelby Spong, Rescuing the Bible From Fundamentalism: A Bishop Rethinks the
Meaning of Scripture. (New York: HarperCollins, 1992), 15
90 Gary Leak and Brandy Randall in the Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion (1995)
quoted in Michael Franklin and Marian Hetherly, “How Fundamentalism Affects Society,” in
The Humanist, 1 September 1997, 26.
91 Leak, Journal.
92 “The Rapture: Hoax or Hope?” Ontario Consultants on Religious Tolerance website [online]
[cited 6 April 2002]; available at http://www.religioustolerance.org/rapture.htm.
93 “The Rapture.”
94 “The Rapture.”
95 B. A. Robinson, “Millennialism: Competing Theories,” Ontario Consultants on Religious
Tolerance website [online] [cited 6 April 2002]; available at
http://www.religioustolerance.org/millenni.htm.
96 Lattin, “Apocalypse,” 8.
97 Martin, With God, 7.
98 “They Said What?!? The Religious Rights Quotes,” The Humanist Society of Gainesville
website [online] [cited 15 March 2002]; available at
http://www.lipsio.com/gainesvillehumanists/quotes.htm.
99 Martin, With God, 7.
100 Charles B. Strozier, Apocalypse on the Psychology of Fundamentalism in America (Boston:
Beacon Press, 1994), 120.
101 Strozier, Apocalypse, 121.
102 Mark Twain, Letters from the Earth, ed. Bernard DeVoto (Greenwich, Conn.: Fawcett
Publications, 1970).
103 Robinson, “Millennialism.”
104 Edward Hindson, “What Will It Be Like To Be Left Behind,” The Tim LaHaye School of
Prophecy website [online] [cited 14 May 2002]; available at
http://www.schoolofprophecy.com/left_behind.html.
105 Martin, With God, 353-54.
106 Robinson, “Millennialism.”
107 Strozier, Apocalypse, 120.
246 The Fundamentals of Extremism
108 Swift, “Fundamentalism,” 8.
109 Gelles, Sociology, 459.
110 Victor, “Forecasting,” 22.
111 Swift, “Fundamentalism,” 2.
112 Gelles, Sociology, 470.
113 Gelles, Sociology, 470-71.
114 Lattin, “Apocalypse,” 5.
115 Strozier, Apocalypse, 254.
116 Norman F. Furniss, The Fundamentalist Controversy, 1918-1931 (Hamden, CT: Archon,
1963), 35.
117 Gelles, Sociology, 470-71.
118 Appleby, “Unflinching Faith,” 1.
119 Scott R. Appleby, “The God Squads,” in Notre Dame Magazine, summer 1995, Replicated in
SIRS CD-ROM, 11.
120 Rob Boston, “Weekend Warriors,” Church & State 55, no. 6 (2002): 7.
121 Gelles, Sociology, 453.
122 Kay Marie Porterfield, Blind Faith: Recognizing and Recovering From Dysfunctional
Religious Groups (Minneapolis: CompCare Publishers, 1993), 71.
123 Appleby, “The God Squads,” 33-38.
124 Appleby, “Unflinching Faith,” 1.
125 Appleby, “Unflinching Faith,” 2.
126 Flo Conway and Jim Siegelman, Holy Terror: The Fundamentalist War on America’s
Freedoms in Religion, Politics and Our Private Lives (Garden City: Doubleday, 1982), 4.
127 Bruce Hunsberger, “Religion and Prejudice: The Role of Religious Fundamentalism, Quest,
and Right-wing Authoritarianism,” in Journal of Social Issues, 51 (1995): 121.
128 Appleby, “The God Squads,” 11.
129 Swift, “Fundamentalism,” 14.
130Gelles, Sociology, 469.
131 Strozier, Apocalypse, 253.
Chapter 3 Notes
132 Robert Thoburn, The Children Trap (1986), quoted in David C. Berliner, “Educational
Psychology meets the Christian right: differing views of children, schooling, teaching, and
learning,” Teachers College Record Spring 1997, 159, cited in WilsonSelectPlus_FT [database
online] [cited 5 June 2001].
133 Prov. 29.15, Revised Standard Version.
134 Michael Franklin and Marian Hetherly, “How Fundamentalism Affects Society,” The
Humanist, 57, September/October (1997): 25-2.
135 2 Kings 2.24, RSV.
136 Prov. 22.15, RSV.
137 Carolyn Holderread Heggen, “Religious Beliefs and Abuse,” Women, Abuse, and the Bible:
How Scripture Can Be Used to Hurt or Heal, Catherine Clark Kroeger and James R. Beck eds.
(Grand Rapids, MI: Baker, 1996), 17.
138 Such research that is in agreement includes that of Ellison, Bartkowski, and Segal as well as
Ellison and Sherkat.
139 Henry Danso, Bruce Hunsberger, and Michael Pratt, “The Role of Parental Religious
Fundamentalism and Right-Wing Authoritarianism in Child-Rearing Goals and Practices,”
Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion, 36 no. 4 (1997): 497.
140 Pam Belluck, “Many States Ceding Regulations to Church Groups,” New York Times, 27
July, 2001, sec. A.
141 “Spanking on the decline in U.S. schools,” USA Today, 2 December 1996, sec. A.
Notes 247
142 Eli H. Newberger, The Men They Will Become: The Nature and Nurture of Male Character,
(Cambridge, MA: Perseus Publishing, 2001), 75.
143 David C. Berliner, “Educational Psychology Meets the Christian Right,” Teachers’ College
Record, Spring, (1997): 381-416.
144 Rick Bragg, “Christian School Questioned Over Discipline for Wayward,” New York Times,
5 July 200l, Late edition, East Coast, sec. A.
145 Bragg, “Christian School.”
146 Charles N. Sharpe, “Pastor’s Letter,” Heartland Ministries, Heartland Ministries [online]
[cited 6 November 2001]; available at http://www.heartland-ministries.org/pastorsletter.htm.
147 Jill Young Miller, Atlanta Journal Constitution, 26 February 2002, Metro Edition, sec. B.
148 Lolita Wolf, “Lolita's Predictions & Predilections,” Leather Page.com [online] [cited 10
April 2002]; available at http://leatherpage.com/columns/lolita/lw000925.htm.
149 “Got Kids? Spank Them, Group Says,” Detroit News, Associated Press, Features sec., 24
Sept. 2000, [online] [cited 15 March 2002]; available at
http://detnews.com/2000/features/0009/26/a03-125033.htm.
150 James C. Dobson, “Hot Topics: Spanking,” Focus on the Family website [online] [cited 25
March 2002]; available at http://www.family.org/docstudy/solid/a0014858.html.
151 DYG, Inc., “What Grown-ups Understand about Child Development” [online] [cited 2 April
2002] http://www.zerotothree.org/executivesummary.pdf.
152 B.D.Schmitt, “Spanking,” Clinical Reference Systems, Annual 2000, 1461.
153 Wendy Walsh, Family Relations, vol. 51, issue 1, 81-88.
154 “Spanking Makes Children Violent, Antisocial,” excerpt from the "American Medical
Association News Update," 13 August 1997 [online] [cited 20 March 2002]; available at
http://wwwave.org/DataBase/SPANKING_Children.htm.
155 “The Spanking-Depression Connection,” Canadian Medical Association Journal, 161, no. 7,
5 October (1999).
156 Erica Good, “Findings Give some Support to Advocates of Spanking,” New York Times, 25
August, 2001, sec. A.
157 Harold Grasmick, Robert Bursik Jr., and M’lou Kimpel, Violence and Victims, 1991, cited in
Michael Franklin and Marian Hetherly, “How Fundamentalism Affects Society,” The Humanist,
September (1997): 25-26.
158 Elinor Burkett and Frank Bruni, A Gospel of Shame, (New York: Viking Penguin,1993), 6.
159 J. Alford, M. Grey, and C.J. Kasper, “Child molesters: Areas for further research,”
Corrective and Social Psychiatry and Journal of Behavior Technology Methods and Therapy, 34
(1988): 4 cited in Ruth Miller, Larry S. Miller, and Miller,Mary R. Langenbrunner, “Religiosity
and child sexual abuse: A risk factor assessment,” Journal of Child Sexual Abuse, vol. 6, issue 4
(1997): 15-34.
160 Michael Powell, Lois Romano, The International Herald Tribune, 14 May, 2002, Bankok
edition, Section A.
161 Jim Seghers, “Catholic Fundamentalism, What is That,” Apologetic and Other Free Essays,
Totus Tuus Ministries website [online] [cited 31 March 2002]; available at
http://www.totustuus.com/essays.htm.
162 Alford, “Child molesters,” 4.
163 Teresa Watanabe, “Sex Abuse by Clerics—A Crisis of Many Faiths,” Los Angeles Times, 25
March 2002, sec. A.
164According to Hull & Burke (1991), cited in Jackie J. Hudson, “Characteristics of the
Incestuous Family,” Women, Abuse, and the Bible: How Scripture Can Be Used to Hurt or
Heal, Catherine Clark Kroeger and James R. Beck eds. (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker, 1996), 71-72.
248 The Fundamentals of Extremism
165 Jackie J. Hudson, “Characteristics of the Incestuous Family,” Women, Abuse, and the Bible:
How Scripture Can Be Used to Hurt or Heal, Catherine Clark Kroeger and James R. Beck eds.
(Grand Rapids, MI: Baker, 1996), 72.
166 Hudson, “Characteristics,” 77.
167 Hudson cites Finkelhor, Herman and Hirschman, Hull and Burke, and Jehu.
168 Hudson, “Characteristics,” 77.
169 Hudson, “Characteristics,” 77 citing Cohen.
170 Hudson, “Characteristics,” 77 citing Herman & Hirschman, Trepper & Barrett, and Jehu.
171 Ruth Miller, Larry S. Miller, and Miller,Mary R. Langenbrunner, “Religiosity and child
sexual abuse: A risk factor assessment,” Journal of Child Sexual Abuse, vol. 6, issue 4 (1997):
15-34.
172 Miller,“Religiosity,” 15-34.
173 Miller,“Religiosity,” 15-34.
174 Miller,“Religiosity,” 15-34.
175 Miller,“Religiosity,” 15-34.
176 David Thibodeau and Leon Whiteson, A Place Called Waco (New York: Public Affairs,
1999), 107-108.
177 “Why Exempt Churches from Reporting Child Abuse?” USA Today, 22 March, 2002, sec.
A.
178 Prov. 2.6 RSV.
179Vincent M. Wales, “Hitler, Gun Control, and School Prayer,” The Atheist Attic, [online]
[cited 22 March 2002]; available at http://www.bee.net/cardigan/attic/120101.htm.
180 19th Century Schoolbooks website, University of Pittsburg Library System, Nietz Full Text
Database, [online] [cited 1 April 2002]; available at http://digital.library.pitt.edu/nietz.
181 Elmer Schwieder and Dorothy Schwieder, A Peculiar People: Iowa’s Old Order Amish,
(Ames, Iowa: State University Press, 1987), 114.
182 Debi S. Edmund, “Different rules for public and private schools,” The Education Digest, vol.
65a, Issue 3a, 1 November (1999), 2.
183 Belluck, “Many States.”
184 “Support for Homeschooling on the Rise,” USA Today, 30 August 2001, sec. D.
185 Patrick Basham, “Homeschooling: From the Extreme to the Mainstream,” Public Policy
Sources, vol. 51, (Vancouver, BC: Frazer Institute, 2001), [online] [cited 30 March 2002];
available at http://www.fraserinstitute.ca/admin/books/files/homeschool.pdf.
186Loretta F. Meeks, Wendall A. Meeks, and Claudia A. Warren, “Racial desegregation: Magnet
schools, vouchers, privatization, and homeschooling,” Education and Urban Society;” vol. 33,
Issue 1, November (2000): 88-101.
187 Stacey Bielick, Kathryn Chandler, and Stephen P. Broughman, “Homeschooling in the
United States: 1999,” Education Statistics Quarterly (2002) [online] [cited 24 March 2002];
available at http://nces.ed.gov/pubs2002/quarterly/fall/q3-2.asp.
188 Bielick, “Homeschooling.”
189 William Blake is very popular in religious studies. He used the imagery of the Christian
lamb, easily led by the shepherd. Blake was certainly religious, and did indeed believe in angels,
but a comprehensive study of his work or his life reveals this image to be a satirical reference to
those too easily led.
190 Alfred Darnell and Darren E. Sherkat, “The Impact of Protestant Fundamentalism on
Educational Attainment,” American Sociological Review, 62 (1997): 309-11. cited in Kimberly
Blaker, "Christian Fundamentalism: A Growing Danger," (paper presented at the Student
Scholars Conference for Students at Michigan's Two-Year Colleges, Lansing, Mich., 26
September 1998) 5.
191 Darnell and Sherkat, “The Impact,” 309-311.
192 Azam Kamguian, “Remove God from the Schools,” Institute for the Secularism of Islamic
Society, (17 May, 2002) [online] [cited 11 June, 2002] available at
http://www.secularislam.org/Default.htm.
Notes 249
193 Kamguian, “Remove God.”
194 Mallica Dutt, “God’s Guerillas,” New Internationalist, August 1995, 16-17.
195 Robert Simonds, How to Elect Christians to Public Office, (1985) quoted in David C.
Berliner, “Educational Psychology meets the Christian right: differing views of children,
schooling, teaching, and learning,” Teachers College Record, Spring (1997), cited in
WilsonSelectPlus_FT [database online] [cited 5 June 2001], 3-4.
196 Simonds, How to.
197 Thoburn, The Children, 3.
198 Thoburn, The Children, 3.
199 Randy Moore, “Educational Malpractice: Why Do So Many Biology Teachers Endorse
Creationism?” Skeptical Inquirer, vol. 25, no. 6, November/December, 2001, 38-43.
200 Roger Doyle, “Down with Evolution!,” Scientific American, vol. 286, no. 3, March 2002, 30.
201 Katherine Gleeson, “Teens and Taboos: Fact and Fiction,” ZPG Backgrounder winter 1990-
91, replicated in SIRS CD-ROM, 1-7.
202 “Teenagers’ Sexual and Reproductive Health,” Alan Guttmacher Institute website [online]
[cited 30 March 2002]; available at http://www.agi-usa.org/pubs/fb_teens.html.
203 Gleeson, “Teens and Taboos,” 3-4.
204 Gleeson, “Teens and Taboos,” 6.
205 Douglas Kirby, "No Easy Answers: Research Findings on Programs to Reduce Teen
Pregnancy," March 1997, Washington DC: The National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy
website [online] [cited 20 March 2002]; available at
http://teenpregnancy.org/resources/data/report_summaries/no_easy_answers/default.asp.
206 Susan Motamed, “Condom Availability and Responsible Sexuality Education,” Planned
Parenthood website [online] [cited 15 March 2002]; available at
http://www.plannedparenthood.org/articles/sexed.html.
207 Fritz Detwiler, Standing on the Premises of God (New York: New York University Press,
1999), 85.
208 “Group says YMCA promotes witches,” Associated Press, 24 January 2002 [online] [cited 27
Feb. 2002]; available at http://www.canoe.ca/CNEWSWorldTrade/home.html.
209 “Group says.”
210 Donna Harrington-Lueker, “Book Battles,” American School Board Journal, February
(1991).
211 Detwiler, Standing, 78.
212John M. Swomley, “The ‘Power’ of Prayer,” The Humanist, vol. 60, no. 1, (2000): 38,
replicated in WilsonSelectPlus_FT [database online] [cited 5 June 2001].
213 Edd Doerr, Catholic Schools: the Facts (Silver Spring, MD: Americans For Religious
Liberty, 1993), 149.
214 It should be noted that Catholic schools are not presented here as fundamentalist. They are
given as examples of religion in education.
215 Jodie Morse, “Letting God Back In,” Time, 22 October 2001 [online] [cited 3 Feb. 2002];
available at http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,1101011022-179476,00.html.
216 “Letting God Back In.”
217 “Letting God Back In.”
218 Matt. 6.5, RSV.
219 Exod. 20, 1-17, RSV.
220 Andrea J. Sedlak and Diane D. Broadhurst, Executive Summary of The Third National
Incidence Study of Child Abuse and Neglect, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Administration for Children and Families Administration on Children, Youth and Families
National Center on Child Abuse and Neglect, September 1996. (Cited 20 March 2002)
Available at http://www.calib.com/nccanch/pubs/statinfo/nis3.cfm.
250 The Fundamentals of Extremism
221Betty Lou Bettner and Amy Lew, Raising Kids who Can (New York: Harper Perennial,
1992), 45.
222 H. Stephen Glenn and Jane Nelson, Raising Self-Reliant Children in a Self-Indulgent World
(Roseville, California: Prima Publications, 2000), 191-92.
223 K.M. Brigman, “Churches helping families” Family Perspectives, volume 18 (1984) 77-84.
224Pamela Warrick, “The Fall From Spyglass Hill,” Los Angeles Times 29 April 1998, sec. E.
Chapter 4 Notes
225 “Report of the Baptist Faith and Message Study Committee to the Southern Baptist
Convention,” Southern Baptist Convention website [online] [cited 15 April 2002]; available at
http://sbc.net/default.asp?url=bfam_2000.html.
226 David Phinny, “Baptists tell Wives to Submit,” ABCNews.com 10 June 1998, [online][cited
5 February 2002]; available at
http://abcnews.go.com/sections/us/DailyNews/baptistcon980610.html.
227 Lynn Hunt et al., The Challenge of the West: Peoples and Cultures from the Stone Age to
1640, (Lexington, MA: D.C. Heath and Company, 1995), 1:19.
228 Richard Dawkins note to Kimberly Blaker 24 October 2002.
229 Alan Brinkley, American History: A Survey, Volume I: To 1877 9th ed. (New York:
McGraw-Hill, Inc., 1995), 291-92.
230 “Women in American History by Encyclopedia Britannica,” Britannica Online [online] [cited
8 May 2002]; available at http://women.eb.com/women/articles/coverture.html.
231 Carole Pateman, 1988 “The Sexual Contract” http://instruct.uwo.ca/anthro/211/slavery.htm.
232 Brinkley, American History, 291-92.
233 Brinkley, American History, 291-92.
234 Brinkley, American History, 291-92.
235 Kimberly Blaker, “In Remembrance of Women’s Freedom,” Rochester Woman, March
2002, 23.
236 Webster’s New World Encyclopedia (New York: Prentice Hall, 1992), 981.
237 Susan Faludi, Backlash (New York: Anchor Books, 1991), 232-233.
238 William Martin, With God on Our Side: The Rise of the Religious Right in America (New
York: Broadway Books, 1996), 162.
239 Martin, With God, 162.
240 Faludi, Backlash, 232.
241 Faludi, Backlash, 235.
242 Faludi, Backlash, 235.
243 Faludi, Backlash, 235-36.
244 Faludi, Backlash, 236.
245 Faludi, Backlash, 236.
246 Faludi, Backlash, 233.
247 Mallika Dutt, “God’s Guerillas,” New Internationalist August 1995,17.
248 John W. Wright, ed., The New York Times 2001 Almanac (New York: Penguin Putnam Inc.,
2000), 400.
249 Robert D. Culver, “A Traditional View: Let Your Women Keep Silence,” quoted in David
M. Scholer, “The Evangelical Debate over Biblical ‘Headship,’” Women, Abuse, and the Bible:
How Scripture Can Be Used to Hurt or Heal, eds. Catherine Clark Kroeger and James R. Beck
(Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Books, 1996), 36-7.
250 “The Woman’s Role in the Plan of God,” Biblical Viewpoints Publications published by
Church of God in Christ, Mennonite [online] [cited 13 June 2001]; available at
http://www.bibleviews.com/womanrole.html.
251 “The Woman’s Role,” 2.
252 Charles W. Peek, George D. Lowe, and L. Susan Williams, “Gender and God’s Word:
Another Look at Religious Fundamentalism and Sexism,” Social Forces 69 (1991): 1206.
Notes 251
253 Peek, “Gender and God,” 1215.
254 Tracey Ann Martin, “The Truth Behind. . . Promise Keepers,” For NOW The Official
Publication of the Western Wayne County Chapter March 1997
255 “Myths and facts about the Promise Keepers,” in National Organization for Women website
[online] [cited 4 May 1998], 1.
256 Martin, With God, 161.
257 “The Woman’s Role,” 3-4.
258 Alice P. Mathews, “How Evangelical Women Cope with Prescription and Description,”
Women, Abuse, and the Bible: How Scripture Can Be Used to Hurt or Heal, eds. Catherine
Clark Kroeger and James R. Beck (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Books, 1996), 86-7.
259 J.M. Miles, The Femine Principal: A Woman’s Discovery of the key to total fulfillment
(1975), 42, cited in Alice P. Mathews, “How Evangelical Women Cope with Prescription and
Description,” Women, Abuse, and the Bible: How Scripture Can Be Used to Hurt or Heal, eds.
Catherine Clark Kroeger and James R. Beck (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Books, 1996), 86-7.
260 Mathews, “How Evangelical,” 87.
261 Mathews, “How Evangelical,” 100.
262 Mathews, “How Evangelical,” 88.
263 Mathews, “How Evangelical,” 100-01.
264 Mathews, “How Evangelical,” 100-01.
265 Mathews, “How Evangelical,” 100-01.
266 Mathews, “How Evangelical,” 101-02, quoting the surveyed women’s responses.
267 Mathews, “How Evangelical,” 102, quoting the surveyed women’s responses.
268 Mathews, “How Evangelical,” 103.
269 “Christians Are More Likely to Experience Divorce Than Are Non-Christians,” Barna
Research Online, 21 December 1999 [online][cited 12 February 2002]; available at
http://www.barna.org/cgi-bin/PagePressRelease.asp?PressReleaseID=39&Reference=D.
270 “Christians Are More.”
271 Carolyn Holderread Heggen, “Religious Beliefs and Abuse,” Women, Abuse, and the Bible:
How Scripture Can Be Used to Hurt or Heal, eds. Catherine Clark Kroeger and James R. Beck
(Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Books 1996), 21.
272 John M. Swomley, Abortion and Public Policy (Silver Spring, Maryland: Americans for
Religious Liberty, 1994), 418-19.
273 U.S. Department Of Justice, U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics, Statistics on Violence Against
Women: 1995 [online] [cited 9 April 2002]; available at
http://www.cfpa.org/programswomen/9704summitreport/appendix.cfm.
274 Richard J. Gelles and Ann Levine, Sociology: An Introduction 5th. Ed. (New York: McGraw-
Hill, Inc., 1995), 58.
275 Gelles, Sociology, 58.
276 Gelles, Sociology, 59.
277 Gelles, Sociology, 59.
278 Gelles, Sociology, 60.
279 V. Michael McKenzie, Domestic Violence in America, (Lawrenceville, VA: Brunswick
Publishing Corporation, 1995), 92.
280 Michael Franklin and Marian Hetherly, “How fundamentalism affects society,” The
Humanist, 57, September/October 1997, 25, in WilsonSelectPlus-FT [database online] [cited 5
June 2001].
281 Heggen, “Religious Beliefs,” 16-24.
282 Heggen, “Religious Beliefs,” 17.
283 McKenzie, Domestic Violence, 56.
284 McKenzie, Domestic Violence, 58.
252 The Fundamentals of Extremism
285 Heggen, “Religious Beliefs,” 18.
286 Shirley Gillett, “No Church to call Home,” Women, Abuse, and the Bible: How Scripture
Can Be Used to Heal or Hurt eds. Catherine Clark Kroeger and James R. Beck (Grand Rapids,
MI: Baker Books, 1996), 107-08.
287 Heggen, “Religious Beliefs,” 24.
288 Christine E. Gudorf, “The worst sexual sin: Sexual violence and the church,” Christian
Century, 6-13 January 1993, 21.
289 Franklin, “How Fundamentalism,”1.
290 Heggen, “Religious Beliefs,” 18.
291 Faludi, Backlash, 233.
292 Russ Bellant, The Coors Connection (Cambridge, MA: Political Research Associates, 1990),
cited in “Group Watch: Heritage Foundation,” February 1991 [online] [cited 10 March 2002];
available at http://www.publiceye.org/research/Group_Watch/Entries-62.htm.
293 Bellant, The Coors.
294 John Ashcroft, “Remove Perverse Incentives,” Policy Review September 1996 [online] [cited
14 June 2001]; available at http://www.policyreview.org/sept96/symp.html.
295 James Dobson, Straight Talk, 92, cited in Albert J. Menendez, Three Voices of Extremism:
Charles Colson, James Dobson, D. James Kennedy (Silver Spring, MD: Americans for
Religious Liberty, 1977), 64.
296 James Dobson, “Revive the ‘Marriage Culture,’” Policy Review September 1996 [online]
[cited 14 June 2001]; available at http://www.policyreview.org/sept96/symp.html.
297 William S. Lind and William H. Marshner, Cultural Conservative: Toward a New National
Agenda, cited in Paul M. Weyrich, “Reverse an Anti-Marriage Bias,” Policy Review September
1996 [online] [cited 14 June 2001]; available at http://www.policyreview.org/sept96/symp.html.
298 Carl J. Cunio, “The Withering of Trade Union Patriarchy,” [online] [cited 10 March 2002];
available at http://socserv2.socsci.mcmaster.ca/vol001.003/DOMESTIC.HTM.
299 Lind, Cultural.
300 David Blankenhorn, “Find the Will,” Policy Review September 1996 [online] [cited 14 June
2001]; available at http://www.policyreview.org/sept96/symp.html
301 Blankenhorn, “Find the Will.”
302 D. James Kennedy, “Praise the Two-Parent Family,” Policy Review September 1996 [online]
[cited 14 June 2001]; available at http://www.policyreview.org/sept96/symp.html.
303 Kennedy, “Praise the Two-Parent.”
304 Dan LeRoy, “West Virginia Gives $100 Marriage Welfare Bonus,” Women’s Enews
available on National Organization for Women website [online] [cited 29 January 2002];
available at http://www.now.org/eNews/aug2001/081401westvirginia.html.
305 “Fathers Count Bill: Warm and Fuzzy or Cold and Calculated,” National Organization for
Women website [online] [cited 29 January 2002]; available at http://www.now.org/nnt/winter-
2000/viewpoint.html.
306 “Fathers Count Bill.”
307 Patrick F. Fagan, “How U.N. Conventions on Women’s and Children’s Rights Undermine
Family, Religion, and Sovereignty,” The Heritage Foundation Background Executive Summary
5 February 2001[online] [cited 15 June 2001]; available at
http://wwwheritage.org/library/backgrounder/bg1407es.html
308 Fagan, “How U.N.,” 2.
309 “Survey: Religion Affects Teen Sex,” National Center for Policy Analysis website [online]
[cited 8 May 2002]; available at http://www.ncpa.org/iss/soc/pd100301f.html
310 Denise Golumbaski, Research Analyst, Federal Bureau of Prisons, letter to Mr. Swift,
[online] [cited 7 September 1999]; available at http://www.holysmoke.org/icr-pri.htm.
311 BOES.ORG [online] [cited 9 April 2002]; available at
http://www.boes.org/urgent/gwbush02.html.
312 Alabama Code Section 13A-12-200.2 (1998).
Notes 253
313 ACLU Newswire 27 November 2000 [online] [cited 25 January 2002]; available at
http://www.aclu.org/news/2000/w112700.html.
314 ACLU Newswire.
315 ACLU Newswire.
316 “Churches, Political Authoritarians Support Alabama Dildo Ban,” American Atheist
Flashline 1 March 1999 [online] [cited 25 January 2002].
317 “Churches.”
318 Heather Corinna, “Women shalt not pleasure in Alabama,” Maxi Magazine [online] [cited 19
October 2001]; available at http://www.maximag.com/current/vibes/index.html.
319 Maxine Parshall, note to the author, May 2002.
320 Parshall, letter.
321 ACLU Newswire 27 November 2000 [online] [cited 25 January 2002]
322 Gerald C. Davison and John M. Neale, Abnormal Psychology, 7th ed. (New York: John
Wiley & Sons, Inc.), 388-89.
323 Davison, Abnormal Psychology, 388-89.
324 Gillett, “No Church,” 110-11.
325 Gillett, “No Church,” 111.
326 Davison, Abnormal, 385.
327 Davison, Abnormal, 387.
328 Christopher G. Ellison and Patricia Goodson, “Conservative Protestantism and Attitudes
Toward Family Planning in a Sample of Seminarians,” Journal for the Scientific Study of
Religion, 36, no. 4 (1997): 512-15.
329 Ellison, “Conservative,” 512-15.
330 Ellison, “Conservative,” 512-15.
331 Janet E. Smith, “Barnyard Morality,” America, 13 August 1994, 14.
332 “105th Congress: Rolling Back Women’s Rights,” National Organization for Women,
October 1998 [online][cited 12 March 2002]; available at
http://www.now.org/issues/election/analysis1998/key.html.
333 “105th Congress.”
334 Flo Conway and Jim Siegelman, Holy Terror: The Fundamentalist War on America’s
Freedoms in Religion, Politics and Our Private Lives (Garden City: Doubleday, 1982), 103.
335 National Conference of Catholic Bishops, “Pastoral Plan for Pro-life Activities,” Priests for
Life website 20 November 1975, [online] [cited 14 March 2002]; available at
http://www.priestsforlife.org/magisterium/bishops/75-11-
20pastoralplanforprolifeactivitiesnccb.htm.
336 National Conference.
337 National Conference.
338 Conway, Holy Terror, 104.
339 Conway, Holy Terror, 104.
340 Conway, Holy Terror, 104-05.
341 Conway, Holy Terror, 104-05.
342 Conway, Holy Terror, 105.
343 Conway, Holy Terror, 105.
344 “Major U.S. Supreme Court Rulings on Reproductive Health and Rights,” Planned
Parenthood website [online] [cited 6 May 2002]; available at
http://www.plannedparenthood.org/about/narrhistory/court-23.html.
345 Tanya Melich, The Republican War Against Women (New York: Bantam Books, 1996), 236.
346Michael Lienesch, Redeeming America Piety & Politics in the New Christian Right (Chapel
Hill, NC: University of North Carolina Press, 1993), 259.
347 Martin, With God, 355.
254 The Fundamentals of Extremism
348 Martin, With God, 355.
349 Martin, With God, 355.
350 Martin, With God, 355.
351 Time, 14 June 1993, 48-51, quoted in Jill Smolowe, “New, Improved and Ready for Battle,”
in Human Sexuality 94/95, 19th ed., ed. Ollie Pocs (Guilford, CT: The Dushkin Publishing
Group, 1994), 116.
352 Martin, With God, 355-56.
353 Conway, Holy Terror, 109.
354 Swomley, Abortion, 419.
355 Wright, The New York, 480.
356 Bill Baird and Joni Scott, “A Test of our resolve: the religious right’s attack on freedom,”
The Humanist, September/October 2000, 14-21, cited in WilsonSelect Plus_FT [database
online] [cited 4 June 2001.
357 David C. Trosch, “Has Rome Become the Seat of the Anti-Christ?” Most Holy Family
Monastery [online] [cited 6 May 2002]; available at http://www.trosch.org/jpi/history-refjp2.
htm.
358 American Civil Liberties Union, 2001 Workplan, 3.
359 American Civil Liberties Union, 4.
360 American Civil Liberties Union, 4.
361 Swomley, Abortion, 416.
362 John M. Swomley, “The Pope Versus the Bible,” The Humanist November/December 1997,
36.
363 “Republican Platform Puts Fetus Before Mother,” New York Times, 27 September 1988,
A34 quoted in John Swomley, Abortion and Public Policy, 417.
364 Swomley, Abortion, 417.
365 Conway, Holy Terror, 111.
366 “Church, Medicine and Women,” CBS Health Watch by Medscape [database online] [cited
15 June 2001]; available at http://cbshealthwatch.medscape.com/cx/viewarticle/231433.
367 John M. Swomley, “The ‘Partial-Birth’ Debate in 1998,” The Humanist March/April 1998, 7.
368 Swomley, “The Partial-Birth.”
369 Wright, The New York, 370.
370 Percentage based on 320 to 600 abortions performed per year as reported in Swomley, “The
‘Partial-Birth,’ Debate in 1998,” The Humanist, March/April 1998, pages 6-7 and the 1,184,758
total abortions reported in the United States in 1997 as reported in John W. Wright, The New
York Times Almanac 2001, 371.
371 John M. Swomley, “The Population Wars,” The Humanist July/August 1998, 26.
372 Swomley, “The Partial-Birth,” 5.
373 Swomley, “The Partial-Birth,” 5.
374 Swomley, “The Partial-Birth,” 6.
375 Swomley, “The Partial-Birth,” 6.
376 Linda Rocawich, “Desperation: Before Roe v. Wade, After Roe is Reversed” in Human
Sexuality 94/95, 19th ed., ed. Ollie Pocs (Guilford, CT: The Dushkin Publishing Group, 1994),
119.
377 Vandana Shiva, Third World Network Features, 1 September 1994 [online] [cited 20 October
2002]; available at http://www.iisd.ca/linkages/Cairo/twnpop.txt citing Flora Davis, Moving the
Mountain: the Women’s Movement in America since 1960.
378 Shiva, Third World.
379 Rocawich, “Desperation,: 119.
380 Baird and Scott, “A Test,” 2.
381 Rocawich, “Desperation,” 119.
382 Wright, The New York, 480.
383 Rocawich, “Desperation,” 121-22.
384 Swomley, Abortion, 423.
Notes 255
385 Swomley, “The Population,” 25.
386 “It’s Time for a Change – A ‘See Change,’” Catholics for a Free Choice website [online]
[cited 7 May 2002]; available at http://www.seechange.org/.
387 Swomley, “The Population,” 25.
388 American Civil Liberties Union, 3.
389 Baird and Scott, “A Test,” 8.
390 Baird and Scott, “A Test,” 8.
391 Swomley, Abortion, 420.
Chapter 5 Notes
392 Christian Arsenal, 2001. “Archive Quotes: Week of November 25, 2001.” (Memphis,
Tennessee: ChristianArsenal.com [cited 29 May 2002]); available from
http://www.christianarsenal.com/ArchivesQuotes.htm.
393 Promise Keepers Annual Conference, 1993.
394 John M. Swomley, “War and the Population Explosion: Some Ethical Implications,”
Christian Ethics Today: Journal of Christian Ethics online June 2002 [online] [cited 25 June
2002]; available at
http://www.christianethicstoday.com/Issue/016/War%20and%20the%20Population%20Explosi
on%20-
%20Some%20Ethical%20Implications%20By%20John%20M%20Swomley_016_16_.htm.
395 Swomley, “War and the Population.”
396 “Low-income Children in the United States: A Brief Demographic Profile,” National Center
for Children in Poverty website [online] [cited 24 June 2002]; available at
http://cpmcnet.columbia.edu/dept/nccp/ycpf.html.
397 “Poverty Rates for Children by Family Type,” Luvenberg Income Study [online] [cited 24
June 2002]; available at http://www.lisproject.org/keyfigures/childpovrates.htm.
398 Based on data from the self-reported enrollment of churches as listed in the 2001 Yearbook
of American and Canadian Churches, published on the American Religion Data Archive
(www.arda.org), and data obtained from U.S. Census Bureau, Poverty in the United States 2000.
Figures are for 1998 to 1999 averages.
399 Charles Zastrow and Karen K. Kirst-Ashman, Understanding Human Behavior and the
Social Environment, Third ed., (Chicago: Nelson-Hall Publishers, 1994), 492-93.
400 Zastrow, Understanding Human, 492-93.
401 Zastrow, Understanding Human, 492-93.
402 Zastrow, Understanding Human, 492-93.
403 Zastrow, Understanding Human, 492-93.
404 General Social Survey.
405 Shawna Vogel, “Teen Pregnancy Worldwide,” ABC News, 2000 [online] [cited 19 March
2002]; available at http://abcnews.go.com/sections/living/DailyNews/pregrates000224.html.
406 Vogel, “Teen Pregnancy.”
407 Data obtained for the Morality Weekly Report 1997, except California, Iowa, New
Hampshire, Oklahoma, and Florida from the Alan Guttmacher Institute (1999) “Teenage
Pregnancy: Overall Trends and State-by-State Information.”
408 Tim Stafford, “Inside Crisis Pregnancy Centers,” Christianity Today 17 August 1992, 20-23.
409 Stafford, “Inside Crisis,” 20-23.
410 Stafford, “Inside Crisis,” 20-23.
411 Stafford, “Inside Crisis,” 20-23.
256 The Fundamentals of Extremism
412 George Brown Tindall, America: A Narrative History vol. 1 (New York: W.W. Norton &
Company, 1984), 568.
413 William Martin, With God on Our Side: The Rise of the Religious Right in America (New
York: Broadway Books, 1996), 4.
414 Alan Brinkley, American History: A Survey, Volume I: To 1877, 9th ed. (New York:
McGraw-Hill, Inc., 1995), 373.
415 Tindall, America, 568.
416 Brinkley, American History, 373.
417 Kimberly Blaker, “African-Americans Who Took a Stand.”
418 Forrest G. Wood, The Arrogance of Faith: Christianity and Race in America from the
Colonial Era to the Twentieth Century (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1990), 106-7.
419 “Inerrancy as Defined by: Conservative Protestants, Catholics & Liberal Christians,”
Religious Tolerance website [online] [cited 30 June 2002]; available at
http://www.religioustolerance.org/inerran1.htm.
420 “Inerrancy as Defined.”
421 Wood, The Arrogance, 107.
422 B.A. Robinson, “Christian Reconstructionism, Dominion Theology, and Theonomy,” Ontario
Consultants on Religious Tolerance [online] [cited 14 June 2002]; available at
http://www.sullivan-county.com/nf0/fundienazis/cr.htm.
423 Robinson, “Christian Reconstructionism.”
424 God’s Order Affirmed in Love website [online] [cited 30 June 30, 2002]; available at
http://www.melvig.org/.
425 God’s Order
426 Patricia Lines, “Private Edication Alternatives and State Regulation,” Journal of Law and
Education 12, no.2 Spring 1983, 191, found in Susan Rose, “Christian Fundamentalism and
Education in the United States,” Fundamentalisms and Society (Chicago: University of Chicago
Press, 1993), 462.
427 “Characteristics of Private Schools:1987-1988,” p. 2, found in Susan Rose, “Christian
Fundamentalism and Education in the United States,” Fundamentalisms and Society (Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, 1993), 462.
428 Nancy Ammerman, Bible Believers, 177 found in Susan Rose, “Christian Fundamentalism
and Education in the United States,” Fundamentalisms and Society (Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 1993), 462.
429 Susan Rose, “Christian Fundamentalism and Education in the United States,”
Fundamentalisms and Society (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1993), 462.
430 “Religious Private Schools Most Segregated in U.S.,” 25 June 2002, Research Matters at
Harvard University website [online] [cited 20 October 2002]; available at
http://www.law.harvard.edu/groups/civilrights/press_releases/private_schools.html.
431 Rose, “Christian Fundamentalism,” 462.
432 Kimberly Hohman, “Bob Jones Bends,” About.com [online] [cited 30 June 2002]; available
at http://racerelations.about.com/library/weekly/aa030600a.htm.
433 Jay Reeves, Associated Press, “Book Links found of Bob Jones University with Alabama
Klan,” [online] [cited 14 June 2002]; available at
http://www.geocities.com/hylesjack/bjuklan.htm.
434 “A look inside the wacky world of Bob Jones University,” [online] [cited 14 June 2002];
available at http://www.nobojo.com/minorities.html.
435 “A look inside.”
436 Jonathan Paite, “Letter from Bob Jones University,” The Multiracial Activist, link found at
Kimberly Hohman, “Bob Jones Bends,” About.com [online] [cited 30 June 2002]; available at
http://racerelations.about.com/library/weekly/aa030600a.htm.
437 Paite, “Letter from.”
438 “BoJo and Politics,” [online] [cited 14 June 2002]; available at
http://www.nobojo.com/politics.html.
Notes 257
439 General Social Survey, 2000.
440 “News in Brief,” Freethought Today April 2001, 11.
441 “News in Brief.”
442 Allie Martin and Jody Brown, “Lesbian-Raised Daughter Rebuts Doctors' Stance on Same-
Sex Parenting,” Agape Press, 13 February 2002 [online] [cited 24 June 2002]; available at
http://headlines.agapepress.org/archive/2/132002a.asp.
443 Dennis Coon, Introduction to Psychology: Exploration and Application (Minneapolis/St.
Paul: West Publishing Company, 1995), 615.
444 American Civil Liberties Union, 2001 Workplan.
445 Peter Hanson, “The Hatred Behind the Defense of Marriage Act,” The Online Daily of the
University of Washington, [online] [cited 28 June 2002]; available at
http://archives.thedaily.washington.edu/1996/093096/hanson93096.html.
446 Del Stover, “The At-Risk Students Schools Continue to Ignore,” in Oppression and Social
Justice: Critical Frameworks 4th ed., ed. Julie Andrzejewski (Needham Heights, MA: Ginn
Press, 1993), 261. Reprinted from The Education Digest, May 1992, vol. 57, no. 9, 36-40.
447 Stover, “The At-risk,” This 30% figure is widely quoted from Paul Gibson’s section of
Report of the Secretary's Task Force on Youth Suicide, entitled “Gay Male and Lesbian Youth
Suicide.” This report was commissioned and published by the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services in 1989. The statistic was later repudiated and removed, but it is unclear if this
was due to any reason besides pressure from the Religious Right (since the statistic gave schools
strong motivation to provide counseling and resources for gay and lesbian students).
448 Stover, “The At-Risk,” 262.
449 Stover, “The At-Risk,” 261.
450 Stanton L. Jones, "The Loving Opposition," Christianity Today 19 July 1993: 19-25.
451 Jones, "The Loving," 19-25.
452 Julie Cart, “Wyoming Campus Mourns Slaying of Gay Student,” Los Angeles Times, 13
October 1998, A-1.
453 Julie Cart, “Killer of Gay Student Is Spared Death Penalty -- Courts: Matthew Shepard's
father says life in prison shows 'mercy to someone who refused to show any mercy.'” Los
Angeles Times, 5 November 1999, A-1.
454 Based on the Federal Bureau of Investigation Uniform Crime Reporting Program statistics on
hate crimes for 1999 and US Census statistics on minority population for 2000. Gay, lesbian,
and bisexual population is estimated liberally at 10%. As the actual population of active gays
and lesbians is probably quite a bit smaller, they are statistically even more likely to be targeted
for hate crimes than ethnic minorities.
455 David Doege, “Anger at his homosexuality led Dahmer to kill, psychiatrist says,” Milwaukee
Sentinel, 7 February 1992.
456 Gerald C. Davison and John M. Neale, Abnormal Psychology, 7th ed. (New York: John
Wiley & Sons, Inc.), 382.
457 Davison, Abnormal Psychology, 382.
458 General Social Survey, 1984 and 2000.
459 Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission, “The Case Against Disney: Twenty-three reasons
(and counting) to beware of the ‘Magic Kingdom,’” Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission
2002 [online] [cited 3 May 2002]; available at
http://www.erlc.com/Culture/Disney/1997/case.htm.
460 Concerned Women for America, “In Defense of Marriage,” CWFA.org, 29 February 2000
[online] [cited 2 June 2002]; available at http://www.cwfa.org/library/family/2000-01-31_caprop-
22.shtml.
461 Bruce Hunsberger, “Religion and Prejudice: The Role of Religious Fundamentalism, Quest,
and Right-wing Authoritarianism,” Journal of Social Issues, 51 (1995): 118.
258 The Fundamentals of Extremism
462 Michael Franklin and Marian Hetherly, “How Fundamentalism Affects Society,” The
Humanist, 1 September 1997, 26.
463 Franklin, “How Fundamentalism,” 26.
464 A review of studies was conducted by Batson, Schoenrade, and Ventis (1993) cited in
Hunsberger, “Religion,” 114-16.
465 Hunsberger, “Religion,” 114-16.
466 Hunsberger, “Religion,”113.
467 Hunsberger, “Religion,” 118.
468 Hunsberger, “Religion,” 121.
469 Hunsberger, “Religion,” 123.
470 Hunsberger, “Religion,” 123.
471 Hunsberger, “Religion,” 126.
472 C.D. Batson, W.L. Ventis, and P. Schoenrade, Religion and the individual: A socialpsychological
perspective (New York: Oxford University Press, 1993), referenced in Bruce
Hunsberger, “Religion and Prejudice: The Role of Religious Fundamentalism, Quest, and Rightwing
Authoritarianism,” Journal of Social Issues, 51 (1995): 122.
473 Hunsberger, “Religion,” 122.
474 Allport, 1954, cited in Hunsberger, “Religion,” 124.
475 Glock & Stark, 1966, cited in Hunsberger, “Religion,” 124.
476 Eisinga et al., 1990, cited in Hunsberger, “Religion,” 124.
477 Adorno et al., 1950; Altemeyer, 1988, cited in Hunsberger, “Religion,” 124.
478 Rokeach, 1960, cited in Hunsberger, “Religion,” 124.
479 Altemeyer, 1981, cited in Hunsberger, “Religion,” 124.
480 Mark Nathan Cohen, Culture of Intolerance: Chauvinism, Class, and Racism in the United
States (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1998), 299.
481 Cohen, Culture, 299.
482 Cohen, Culture, 297.
483 Cohen, Culture, 297.
484 Cohen, Culture, 299-300.
485 Richard J. Gelles and Ann Levine, Sociology: An Introduction 5th. Ed. (New York: McGraw-
Hill, Inc., 1995), 453.
486 Rodney Stark, Sociology, 7th ed. (Belmont, CA: Wadsworth Publishing Company, 1998),
391.
487 Gelles, Sociology, 453
488 Stark, Sociology, 391.
489 Stark, Sociology, 391.
490 Stark, Sociology, 394.
491 Stark, Sociology, 392.
492 Stark, Sociology, 394-95.
493 Stark, Sociology, 394-95.
494 Gelles, Sociology, 456.
495 Flo Conway and Jim Siegelman, Holy Terror: The Fundamentalist War of America’s
Freedoms in Religion, Politics and Our Private Lives (Garden City: Doubleday, 1982), 5.
496 Conway, Holy Terror, 5.
497 Conway, Holy Terror, 5.
498 Doni P. Whitsett, “A Self Psychological Approach to the Cult Phenomenon,” Clinical Social
Work Journal vol. 20, no. 4, Winter 1992, 369.
499 Whitsett, “A Self Psychological.”
500 Whitsett, “A Self Psychological,” 363.
501Donald C. Swift, “A Short History of Cults in America,” in Cults, ed. Jill Karson (San Diego:
Greenhaven Press, Inc., 2000), 29.
502 Johan D. Vander Vyver, “Religious Fundamentalism and Human Rights,” Journal of
International Affairs, 50 (1996): 29.
Notes 259
503 “An Overview of the ICC/ICOC.” REVEAL.org, 2002 [online] [cited 10 March 2002];
available at http://www.reveal.org/abouticc/overview.html.
504 Daily Bruin, UCLA publication, date unknown
505 Whitsett, “A Self Psychological,” 365.
506 Whitsett, “A Self Psychological,” 371-72.
507 Whitsett, “A Self Psychological,” 371-72.
508 Whitsett, “A Self Psychological,” 371-72.
509 Based on data obtained from the U.S. Bureau of Justice statistics, 1999 violent crime rates
and data obtained from American Religion Data Archive, 1990 Church and Church Membership
State Report.
510 Steve Chapman, “Praise the Lord, Pass the Ammo,” Chicago Tribune [online] [cited 4 July
2000]; available at www.losingmyreligion.com/articlesl/passtheammo/html.
511 E. Currie, “Fighting Crime,” Working Papers 9 (May/June 1982): 26-35, found in D. Stanley
Eitzen and Doug A. Timmer, Criminology: Crime and Criminal Justice (New York: MacMillan
Publishing Company, 1985), 571.
512 Marguerite Holloway, “The Aborted Crime Wave?” Scientific American, December 1999.
513 David Minzey in a letter addressed to Gael Parr, reprinted by Libertus.net, Brisbane,
Australia [online] [cited 24 June 2002]; available at
http://libertus.net/censor/docarchive/920820-398az.html#michigansp.
514 Coon, Introduction.
515 Coon, Introduction, 523.
516 Christine E. Gudorf, “The worst sexual sin: Sexual violence and the church,” Christian
Century, 6-13 January 1993, 21.
517 Gudorf, “The worst,” 21.
518 Tom Economus, “Catholic Pedophile Priests: The Effect on U.S. Society,” The Linkup
website [online] [cited 21 February 2000]; available at http://www.thelinkup.com/stats.html.
519 Economus, “Catholic Pedophile.”
520 Coon, Introduction, 522.
521 Paul O’Brien, letter to Kimberly Blaker, 7 September 1997
522 O’Brien, letter.
523 O’Brien, letter.
524 O’Brien, letter.
525 O’Brien, letter.
526 O’Brien, letter.
527 “What Makes Serial Killers Tick?” The Crime Library website [online] [cited 20 June 2002];
available at http://www.crimelibrary.com/serials/what/whatabuse.htm.
528 Franklin, “How Fundamentalism,” 27.
529 Franklin, “How Fundamentalism,” 27 cited as the conclusion of Ryan W. LaMothe, Ph.D.,
530 Martin E. Marty, “Crime Data,” The Christian Century, in WilsonSelectPlus_FT [database
online] (117, no. 4 2000-[cited 5 June 2001]) p. 167.
531 “Pharmacist at center of cancer drug scare was innovative, driven by desire to succeed,”
Jefferson City News-Tribune 5 September 2001 Online Edition.
532 “Pharmacist.”
533 Freethought Today, September 1991, 12.
534 Marty, “Crime Data.”
535 Karen Armstrong, The Battle for God (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2000), 364.
536 Charles B. Strozier, Apocalypse on the Psychology of Fundamentalism in America (Boston:
Beacon Press, 1994) cited in Don Lattin, “Apocalypse Now?” Common Boundary May/June
1996, 32-38. Replicated in SIRS CD-ROM, 4.
260 The Fundamentals of Extremism
537 Charles B. Strozier, Apocalypse on the Psychology of Fundamentalism in America (Boston:
Beacon Press, 1994), 72.
538 Strozier, Apocalypse.
539 Scott R. Appleby, “The God Squads,” Notre Dame Magazine summer 1995, 33-38.
Replicated in SIRS CD-ROM, 9.
540 Appleby, “The God Squads.”
541 Skipp Porteous, “Olson calls militia to Montana,” [online] [cited 19 October 2001]; available
at http://www.ifas.org/fw/9605/militia.html.
542 Skipp Porteous, “Field Manual of the Free Militia: Foreword,” January 1996, [online] [cited
19 October 2001]; available at http://www.rickross.com/reference/militia9.html.
543 Kenneth Stern, A Force Upon the Plain: The American Militia Movement and the Politics of
Hate (Simon & Schuster, 1996) quoted at “Armed & Dangerous: Militias Take Aim in Virginia
and North Carolina” Eye on the Christian Right website [online] [cited 18 June 2002]; available
at http://www.sullivan-county.com/news/mine/militia.htm.
544 Stern, A Force.
545 Porteous, “Field Manual.”
546 Larry Pratt, “What Does the Bible Say About Gun Control?” Chalcedon Report February
2000 [online] [cited 24 June 2002]; available at
http://www.chalcedon.edu/report/2000feb/pratt.shtml.
547 Pratt, “What Does.”
548 Pratt, “What Does.”
549 Pratt, “What Does.”
550 John Anderson, “Itching for a Fight,” About.com, [online] [cited 19 October 2001]; available
at http://pirateradio.about.com/library/weekly/aa052901b.htm.
551 “Summer Camps,” Camp Peniel website [online] [cited 28 May 2001]; available at
http://www.camppeniel.org/scamp.htm.
552 “Thoughts,” Camp Peniel website [online] [cited 28 May 2002]; available at
http://www.camppeniel.org/thoughts.htm.
553 “Thoughts.”
554 “Summer Camps.”
555 “Summer Camps.”
556 “Thoughts.”
557 “Thoughts.”
558 “Picture Gallery,” Camp Peniel website [online] [cited 28 May 2002]; available at
http://www.camppeniel.org/pg1.htm.
559 “High Court Pops Floating Bubble Zones,” Christianity Today 28 April 1997, 84.
560 “Violence Continues: Links Between Militants and Militia,” Westchester Coalition for Legal
Abortion, Inc. Coalition Online [online] [cited 24 June 2002]; available at
http://www.wcla.org/97-spring/sp97-06.html.
561 Tom Burghardt, “Gods, Guns, & Terror: Missionaries to the Preborn” [online] [cited 15
November 2002]; available at http://www.webcom.com/~pinknoiz/right/bacorr1.html.
562 “Violence Continues.”
563 “Violence Continues.”
564 Adam Hochschild, “Changing Colors,” Mojo Wire [online] [cited 21 October 2002];
available at http://www.motherjones.com/mother_jones/MJ94/hochschild.html.
565 Don Lattin, “Apocalypse Now?” Common Boundary May/June 1996, 32-38. Replicated in
SIRS CD-ROM, 1.
566 Lattin, “Apocalypse,” 1.
567 Swift, “A Short,” 29.
568 Lattin, “Apocalypse,” 1.
569 Strozier, Apocalypse, 253.
570 Lattin, “Apocalypse,” 6.
571 Strozier, Apocalypse, 90-91.
Notes 261
572 Strozier, Apocalypse, 91.
573 Armstrong, The Battle, 362.
574 Armstrong, The Battle, 362.
575 Porteous, “Olson calls.”
576 John M. Swomley, “The Population Wars,” The Humanist, July/August 1998, 24.
577 Information combined from two sources: Coon, Introduction, 397 and Robert N. Barger,
Ph.D., 2000. “A Summary of Lawrence Kohlberg's Stages of Moral Development” University
of Notre Dame [online] [cited 2 June 2002]; available at
http://www.nd.edu/~rbarger/kohlberg.html.
578 Information combined.
579 Coon, Introduction, 397.
580 Emile Durkheim, On Morality and Society (Chicago, Illinois: The University of Chicago
Press, 1973).
581 Durkheim, On Morality, 145-146.
582 Durkheim, On Morality, 145-146.
583 “Social Theory Reading Notes” [online] [cited 24 June 2002]; available at
http://www.belmont.edu/sociology/classes/theories.htm.
584 David Riesman, The Lonely Crowd (Binghamton, New York: Yale University Press, 1961),
9-17.
585 “Social Theory.”
586 “Social Theory.”
587 “Social Theory.”
588 “The Book of Genesis,” book 1 of The Holy Bible, King James Version, University of
Michigan Humanities Text Initiative, 1996 [online] [cited 29 May 2002]; available at
http://www.hti.umich.edu/k/kjv. chapters 1-48.
589 “The Hang Ten Campaign,” The Interfaith Alliance [online] [cited 31 May 2002]; available
at www.interfaithalliance.org/Resources/tenc.pdf.
590 “The Hang Ten.”
591 American Civil Liberties Union, “Posting of the Ten Commandments: Quick Takes”
American Civil Liberties Union [online] [cited 31 May 2002]; available at
http://www.aclu.org/clis/tencommandments.html.
592 Associated Press, “Ten Commandments Take Center Stage,” 7 January 2000 [online] [cited
31 May 2002]; available at http://www.aclu.org/news/2000/w010700b.html.
593 “The Book of Exodus,” book 2 The Holy Bible, King James Version, University of Michigan
Humanities Text Initiative, 1996 [online] [cited 29 May 2002]; available at
http://www.hti.umich.edu/k/kjv. chapter 20, verse 12.
594 “The Book of Exodus,” verse 13.
595 Department of Health and Human Services, Accountability Report, 1999 Department of
Health and Human Services [online] [cited 14 June 2002]; available at
http://www.hhs.gov/of/reports/account/acct99/misc/century.html.
596 “The Book of Exodus,” ch. 20 v. 14.
597 Ian Robertson, Sociology, 3rd ed. (New York, New York: Worth Publishers, Inc. 1987), 225.
598 “Grounds for Divorce FAQ,” Nolo Press, 2002 [online] [cited 2 March 2002]; available at
http://www.nolo.com/lawcenter/faqs/detail.cfm/objectID/6191B9DC-00BF-42CAA5ADA95C2AEC5196.
599 US Census Bureau, Number, Timing, and Duration of Marriages and Divorces: 1996
(Washington, D.C.: US Census Bureau, 1996) 6-7.
600 J. Hare, “Long-lasting Marriages: Why Do They Survive?” Oregon State University
Extension Service 2002 [online] [cited 11 February 2002]; available at
http://eesc.orst.edu/agcomwebfile/edmat/html/ec/ec1460/ec1460.html.
262 The Fundamentals of Extremism
601 US Census Bureau, Number.
602 “The Book of Exodus,” ch. 20 v. 15.
603 “The Book of Exodus,” ch. 20 v. 16.
604 David R. Weissbard, “Bearing Witness: True and False.” The Unitarian Universalist Church,
[online] [cited 11 February 2002]; available at http://members.aol.com/uurockford/s96-
11rpt.htm.
605 “The Book of Exodus,” ch. 20 v. 17.
Chapter 6 Notes
606 Wallace v. Jaffree,105 U.S. 2479 (1985).
607 First Amendment, Bill of Rights, United State Constitution.
608 Religious Freedom Amendment, H.J.Res 78, 8 May 1997.
609 Robert Boston, Why The Religious Right Is Wrong (Buffalo: Prometheus Books, 1993), 50.
610 Boston, 51.
611 Boston, 55.
612 Boston, 53.
613 Boston, 56.
614 John M. Swomley, Religious Liberty and the Secular State (Buffalo: Prometheus Books,
1987), 18.
615 Boston, 60.
616 Boston, 61.
617 Boston, 65.
618 Boston, 65.
619 Letter to the Danbury Baptists (1802).
620 Wallace v. Jaffree.
621 Boston, 223.
622 Boston, 223.
623 Boston, 224.
624 Robert S. Alley, The Supreme Court on Church and State (New York: Oxford University
Press, 1988), 3.
625 Alley, 6.
626 Boston, 96.
627 Boston, 97.
628 Everson v. Board of Education, 330 U.S. 1 (1947).
629 Everson.
630 McCollum v. Board of Education, 333 U.S. 203 (1948).
631 Zorach v. Clauson, 343 U.S. 306 (1952).
632 Engel v. Vitale, 370 U.S. 421 (1962).
633 School District of Abbington Township v. Schempp, 374 U.S. 203 (1963).
634 Lemon v. Kurtzman, 403 U.S. 602 (1971).
635 Stone v. Graham, 449 U.S. 39 (1981).
636 Wallace v. Jaffree.
637 Lee v. Weisman, 505 U.S. 577 (1992).
638 Santa Fe Independent School District v. Doe, 530 U.S. 290 (2000).
639 Board of Education v. Mergens, 496 U.S. 226 (1990).
640 Good News Club v. Milford Central School, 553 U.S. 98 (2001).
641 Epperson v. Arkansas, 393 U.S. 97 (1968).
642 Edwards v. Aguillard, 482 U.S. 578 (1987).
643 Employment Division v. Smith, 496 U.S. 913 (1990).
644 Rob Boston, “Evangelism, Public Schools and The Supreme Court,” Church & State, January
2001, 8.
645 Rob Boston, “In Don We Trust?,” Church & State, May 2001, 8.
Notes 263
646 Steve Benen, “Monumental Mistake,” Church & State, December 2001, 4.
647 Steve Benen, “Leap of Faith,” Church & State, March 2001, 4.
648 Rob Boston, “Faith –Based Backlash,” Church & State, April 2001, 4.
649 Joseph Conn, “DiIulio Departs,” Church & State, October 2001, 13.
650 “Should You Pay Taxes to Support Religious Schools?,” Faith and Freedom Series,
Americans United for Separation of Church and State.
651 John M. Suarez, “School Vouchers – Yesterday, Today and Forever.” Secular Humanist
Bulletin, 14 no.2 (1998), 8.
652 David C. Berliner and Bruce J. Biddle, The Manufactured Crisis (Reading: Addison-Wesley
Publishing Company, 1995).
653 Suarez, 9.
654 Zelman v. Simmons-Harris, 122 S. Ct. 2460 (2002).
655 Rob Boston, "Supreme Mistake," Church & State, July/August, 2002, 4.
656 Rob Boston, "Voucher Victory," Church & State, September, 2002, 7.
657 Committee for Public Education and Religious Liberty v. Nyquist, 413 U.S. 756 (1973).
658 Sloan v. Lemon, 413 U.S. 825 (1973).
659 Rob Boston, "The Blaine Game," Church & State, September, 2002, 4.
660 Bush v. Holmes, 767 So. 2nd 668 (Fla. App. 2000), review denied, 790 So. 2nd 1104 (2001),
opinion on remand (Fla. Cir. Ct., Aug. 5, 2002).
661 Edd Doerr, Albert J. Menendez, and John M. Swomley, The Case Against School Vouchers
(Americans For Religious Liberty, 1995) and Albert J. Menendez, Visions of Reality: What
Fundamentalist Schools Teach (Buffalo: Prometheus Books, 1993).
662 “Foundation’s ‘Scopes II’ Victory Halts Illegal Bible Instruction.” Freethought Today,
March 2002.
Chapter 7 Notes
663 “I do guerilla warfare”: Norfolk Virginian-Pilot, 9, November 9, 1991.
664 Frederick Clarkson, Eternal Hostility: The Struggle Between Theocracy and Democracy
(Monroe, Maine: Common Courage Press, 1997), 84.
665 Mark Silk, Spiritual Politics: Religion and America Since World War II (New York: Simon
and Schuster, 1988), 99-100.
666 “The Candidates, the platforms, and Church State-Issues,” Church & State, 33 (September
1980), 6-10.
667 John M. Swomley, “Neo-fascism and the religious right,” The Humanist January/February
1995, 3-6.
668 Swomley, “Neo-fascism,” 3-6.
669 Oklahoma City, World, Nov. 16, 1999.
670 Scott Appleby, “The God Squads,” Notre Dame Magazine summer 1995, 33-38.
671 Appleby, “The God,” 33-38.
672 William Martin, With God on Our Side (New York: Broadway Books, 1996), 353.
673 Martin, With God, 353.
674 Martin, With God, 353.
675 Martin, With God, 353.
676 Rodney Clapp, “Democracy as Heresy,” Christianity Today, 20 February 1987.
677 Martin, With God, 354.
678 Martin, With God, 354.
679 Jerry Falwell, Listen America! (New York: Doubleday-Galilee, 1980).
680 Falwell, Listen America!, 202.
681 Falwell, Listen America!,205.
264 The Fundamentals of Extremism
682 Falwell, Listen America!
683 Rob Boston, Close Encounters with the Religious Right (New York: Prometheus, 2000), 107.
684 Stephen L. Carter, God’s Name in Vain ( New York: Basic Books, 2000), 45.
685 Rob Boston, Why the Religious Right is Wrong, (New York: Prometheus, 1993), 234.
686 Richard Swift, “Fundamentalism Reaching for Certainty,” New Internationalist, August
1990.
687 Martin, With God, 317.
688 Martin, With God, 317.
689 Ralph Reed, Active Faith, (New York: Free Press, 1996), 140.
690 Sidney Blumenthal, “Christian Soldiers,” The New Yorker, 18 July 1994.
691 Reed, “I do guerilla,” Norfolk Virginian-Pilot, 9, November 9, 1991.
692 Joseph L. Conn, “Judgement Day,” Church & State, September 1996.
693 Martin, With God, 318.
694 Joe Conason, “Christian Coalition Enters New York City,” The Freedom Writer, May/June
1992.
695 Tanya Melich, The Republican War Against Women (New York: Bantam Books, 1996), 291.
696 Reed, Active Faith, 200-207.
697 Joseph L.Conn, “Power Trip,” Church & State, October 1995.
698 Boston, Close Encounters, 68.
699 Boston, Close Encounters, 71.
700 Boston, Close Encounters, 72.
701 Pat Robertson, “Message from the President,” Christian Coalition of America website
[online] [cited 13 June 2001]; available at http://www.cc.org/aboutcca/patmessage1.html.
702 Charleston Gazette, July 5, 2000
703 Sonja Barisic, “Falwell Says Antichrist Probably on Earth Now,” Associated Press dispatch,
16 January 1999.
704 Barisic, “Falwell Says.”
705 John Harris, “God Gave U.S. ‘What We deserve,’ Falwell says,” Washington Post, 14
September 2001.
706 Skip Porteus, Freedom Writer, December 1995.
707 Boston, Close Encounters, 190.
708 Martin, With God, 341-42.
709 Rob Boston, “Family Feud,” Church & State , May 1998.
710 Boston, Close Encounters, 186.
711 John M. Swomley, “Right-Wing Strong-Arming,” The Humanist, September/October 1998,
40.
712 Boston, Close Encounters, 189.
713 Martin, With God, 355.
714 Scott DeNicola, “Girl Scouts Lose their Way,” Citizen, 21 February 1994.
715 Boston, Why the Religious, 98.
716 Boston, Why the Religious, 99.
717 John Swomley, “One Nation Under God,” The Humanist, May/June 1998, 6.
718 Swomley, “One Nation,” 6.
719 John Swomley, “A League of the Pope’s Own,” The Humanist January/February 1998, 32.
720 Swomley, “A League,” 32.
721 Swomley, “A League,” 32.
722 Swomley, “A League,” 32.
723 Swomley, “A League,” 32.
724 Boston, Close Encounters, 236.
725 Neal Tannahill, American Government: Policy and Politics, 4th ed. (New York:
HarperCollins, 1995), 110.
726 Flo Conway and Jim Siegelman, Holy Terror: The Fundamentalist War on America’s
Freedoms in Religion, Politics and Our Private Lives, (New York: Dell, 1984), 143.
Notes 265
727 Conway, Holy Terror, 144.
728 Mike Phillips, “Tet offensive: Attack stunned American public” The Cincinnati Post, April
26, 2000.
729 Boston, Why the Religious, 135.
730 Rob Boston, “Operation Precinct,” Church & State, July/August 1994.
731 Gary North, Political Polytheism, 601.
732 Martin, With God, 325.
733 Martin, With God, 340.
734 Boston, Why the Religious, 114.
735 “School Bible Reading Survey,” Church & State 13 (January 1960): 5.
736 Joseph L. Conn, “Reagan Backs Government Sponsored School Prayer,” Church & State 35
(June 1982): 3.
737 Swomley, “Right Wing,” 40.
738 Boston, Close Encounters, 108.
739 Boston, Why the Religious, 121.
740 Boston, Why the Religious, 121
741 Boston, Why the Religious, 52.
742 Boston, Close Encounters, 17.
743 “Statement on Teaching Evolution,” National Association of Biology
Teacher [online] [cited 21 October 2002]; available at
http://www.nabt.org/sub/position_statements/evolution.asp.
744 Boston, Close Encounters, 110.
745 Carter, God’s Name, 152.
746 Jonathan Sarfati, “Refuting Evolution,” Answers in Genesis Ministries website 1998 [online]
[cited 14 April 2002]; available at http://answersingenesis.org/docs/1341.asp.
747 Nicholas Humphrey, “What Shall We Tell the Children?” from Amnesty Lecture, Oxford, 21
February 1997 printed in Edge [online] [cited 14 November 2002]; available at
http://www.edge.org/3rd_culture/humphrey/amnesty.html.
748 “The Righteous Empire: A Short History of the End of History and Maybe Even of the
GOP,” The New Republic, 22 October 1984, 18-24.
749 Martin, With God, 234.
750 Appleby, “The God Squads,” 33-38.
751 Martin, With God, 217
752 Martin, With God, 217.
753 Martin, With God, 217.
754 “Whose Prayer Does God Hear?” Ecumenical Trends, Graymore Ecumenical Institute, vol.
10, no. 1, January 1981, 12.
755 Martin, With God, 221.
756 Martin, With God, 222.
757 Martin, With God, 222.
758 Martin, With God, 225.
759 Thomas, Cal (with Dobson, Ed) Blinded by the Might (Grand Rapidsm MI, Zenderrman
Publishing House 1999)
760 Boston, Close Encounters, 37.
761 Hanna Rosin, “The Moral Minority: Thomas Was Among the Right, Now They Find Him
Wrong,” Washington Post, 18 March 1999.
762 Herb Silverman “Indoctrination,” Charleston Post and Courier, January 8, 1995, Letter to the
Editor.
763 D. James Kennedy and Jim Nelson Black, Character and Destiny: A Nation in Search of its
Soul (Grand Rapids, Michigan: Zondervan Publishing House, 1994), 76.
266 The Fundamentals of Extremism
764 Martin, With God, 325
765 Martin, With God, 366.
766 http://www.bju.edu/
767 Jake Tapper, “Jonesing For Votes,” Salon.com, 3 February 2000 [online].
768 Bill Baird and Joni Scott, “A test of our resolve: the religious right’s attack on freedom,” The
Humanist, September/October 2000, 14-21 cited in WilsonSelect Plus_FT [database online]
[cited 4 June 2001], 5.
769 American Civil Liberties Union, 2001 work plan, 6-7.
770 American Civil Liberties Union, 6-7
771 American Civil Liberties Union, 5.
772 American Civil Liberties Union, 7.
773 “Candidate says there are probably still closet atheists,” A.P. Charleston News & Courier,
May 3, 1990.
774 “Avoiding professor’s legal trap,” Charleston News & Courier, May 16, 1990, editorial.
775 John Whitehead, The Second American Revolution, (Elgin, Illinois: David C. Cook, 1982).
776 Deposition of Carroll A. Campbell, Jr., March 3, 1995, Case no. 94-CP-40-3594
777 “Atheists have rights, too,” Spartanburg Herald-Journal, August 13, 1995, editorial.
778 “Gov. David Beasley wants…,” Charleston Post and Courier, October 31, 1995.
779 Heather Campbell “Professor still fighting for his religious rights,” Cougar Pause. April 16,
1997.
780 “Freedom for all,” Herald-Journal, Spartanburg, SC,May 30, 1996, editorial.
781 Conway, Holy Terror, 338.
782 Gary North, Tools of Dominion (Tyler, Texas: Institute for Christian Economics, 1990),
1190-1216.
783 Clarkson, Eternal Hostility, 10.
784 Clarkson, Eternal Hostility, 10.
785 Federal News Service, 3 February 1994.
786 Michael Kinsley, “Martyr Complex,” The New Republic, 13 September 1993.
787 Mallica Dutt, “God’s Guerrillas,” New Internationalist , August 1999, 17.
788 Appleby, “The God Squads,” 10.
789 Michael Lienesch, Redeeming America Piety & Politics in the New Christian Right (Chapel
Hill, NC:Unversity of North Carolina Press, 1993), 249-52.
790 Lienesch, Redeeming, 249.
791 Richard J. Gelles and Ann Levine, Sociology: an Introduction 5th ed. (New York: McGraw-
Hill, 1995), 472.
792 Curt Sytsma, “A Humanist Manifesto,” cited in Corliss Lamont, The Philosophy of
Humanism (Amherst, New York: Half-Moon Foundation 8th ed., 1997), xv.
Chapter 8 Notes
793 Curtis Lee Lawes, “Convention Side Lights,” The Watchman Examiner, 1 July 1920, 834.
794 Interfaith Alliance Foundation and Americans United for Separation of Church and State,
"The Christian Coalition’s ‘Road to Victory’ Conference: Warning: Hazards Ahead,"
September, 1995, 8-11, http://www.interfaithalliance.org/tia/final.rtf [online] [cited 28 April
2002].
795 See, for example, Adib Rashad, “Fundamentalism: A Christian Word,”
http://www.escape.ca/~dkost/fundamentalism.htm
796 Maureen Dowd, “Sacred Cruelties,” New York Times, 7 April 2002, section 4, 15.
797 Harish Desai, “Religious strife in India: Attack, more deaths bring clampdown,” Atlanta
Journal and Constitution, 17 March 2002, C-4; and Barry Bearak, “Angry and ashamed, Indian
Prime Minister tours riot-torn state,” New York Times, 5 April 2002, A-3.
798 Michael Casey, “Attackers kill 14 in Indonesia massacre,” Associated Press, Atlanta Journal
and Constitution, 29 April 2002, A-5.
Notes 267
799 D’Arcy Doran, “Miss World leaves, but unrest continues,” Associated Press, Buffalo News,
24 November 2002, A-3.
800 See, for an example of this, Nicholas D. Kristof, “Stoning and Scripture,” New York Times,
30 April 2002, A-31.
801 The Qur’an and Traditions, VIII. 39-42.
802 The Qur’an and Traditions, IX. 5-6.
803 See, for example, these books by Ibn Warraq: Why I Am Not A Muslim (Amherst, NY:
Prometheus Books, 1995); The Quest for the Historical Muhammad (Amherst, NY: Prometheus
Books, 2000); and What the Koran Really Says: Language, Text, and Commentary (Amherst,
NY: Prometheus Books, 2002); also see Parvin Darabi and Romin P. Thomson, Rage Against
Evil: The Courageous Life and Death of an Islamic Dissident (Amherst, NY: Prometheus
Books, 2000); and Paul Fregosi, Jihad in the West: Muslim Conquests from the 7th to the 21st
Centuries (Amherst, NY: Prometheus Books, 1999).
804 Lawrence Davidson, Islamic Fundamentalism (Westport, Connecticut: Greenwood Press,
1998), 85.
805 Bernard Lewis, “What Went Wrong,” The Atlantic Monthly, January 2002, 43.
806 Lewis, “What Went,” 45.
807 Lewis, “What Went,” 45.
808 Ibn Warraq, Why I Am Not a Muslim (Amherst, NY: Prometheus Books, 1995), 359.
809 Warraq, Why I Am, 360.
810 Gregory J. Rummo, “Calling Christians ‘Taliban’ is Slander,” 14 March 2002, American
Family Association Online [online] [cited 16 June 2002]; available at
http://www.afa.net/culture/gr031402.asp in partially quoting Daniel Pipes, The Record, 10
January 2002.
811 Richard Swift, “Fundamentalism: Reaching for Certainty,” New Internationalist 4 August
1990 reprinted in SIRS CD-ROM 1997.
812 Microsoft Encarta Encyclopedia 2000.
813 Takbeer (Karachi), 23 November 1989, found in Mumtaz Ahmad, “Islamic Fundamentalism
in South Asia: The Jamaat-I-Islami and the Tablighi Jamaat of South Asia,” in Martin E. Marty
and R. Scott Appleby Fundamentalisms Observed (University of Chicago Press: Chicago,
1991), 457-58.
814 Mashriq (Lahore), 6 November 1989, found in Mumtaz Ahmad, “Islamic Fundamentalism in
South Asia: The Jamaat-I-Islami and the Tablighi Jamaat of South Asia,” in Martin E. Marty
and R. Scott Appleby Fundamentalisms Observed (University of Chicago Press: Chicago,
1991), 458.
815 Mumtaz Ahmad, “Islamic Fundamentalism in South Asia: The Jamaat-I-Islami and the
Tablighi Jamaat of South Asia,” in Martin E. Marty and R. Scott Appleby Fundamentalisms
Observed (University of Chicago Press: Chicago, 1991), 458.
816 Abul Ala Maududi, The Islamic Law and Constitution (Lahore: Islamic Publications, 1980),
p. 263, quoted in Ann Elizabeth Mayer, “The Fundamentalist Impact on Law, Politics, and
Constitutions in Iran, Pakistan, and the Sudan,” Fundamentalisms and the State, eds. Martin E.
Marty and R. Scott Appleby (Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1993), 113-14.
817 Homa Hoodfar, “Bargaining with Fundamentalism: Women and the Politics of Population
Control in Iran,” Global Reproductive Health Forum [online] [cited 30 May 2002]; available at
http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/Organizations/healthnet/gender/docs/hoodfar.html.
818 Richard Swift, “Fundamentalism: Reaching for Certainty,” New Internationalist 4 August
1990 reprinted in SIRS CD-ROM 1997.
819 “Pakistan: Insufficient Protection of Women,” Amnesty International, [online] [cited 6 June
2002]; available at
268 The Fundamentals of Extremism
http://web.amnesty.org/802568F7005C4453/0/B681F17BF82BE7BE80256B8100631267?Open
&Highlight=2,women,Islam,beating.
820 “Pakistan: Insufficient Protection.”
821 “Pakistan: Insufficient Protection.”
822 Azam Kamguian, “Crimes of Honour,” Institute for the Secularisation of Islamic Society
[online] [cited 27 May 2002]; available at http://www.secularislam.org/women/honor.htm.
823 Richard Lacayo, “About face,” Time 3 December 2001.
824 “What is Female Genital Mutilation?” Amnesty International, [online] [cited 6 June 2002];
available at
http://web.amnesty.org/802568F7005C4453/0/3B10EA18B5DF096E802569A5007186E4?Ope
n.
825 “What is Female.”
826 Philip Smucker and Michael Satchell, “Hearts and Minds,” U.S. News 15 October 2001
[online] [cited 15 October 2001]; available at
http://www.usnews.com/usnews/issue/011015/ideas/taliban.htm.
827 O. N. Trisal, “Islamic Fundamentalism in Kashmir,” Kashmir Information Network website
[online] [cited 8 June 2002]; available at http://www.kashmirinformation.
com/Miscellaneous/trisal.html.
828 Trisal, “Islamic Fundamentalism.”
829 “Sudan: Suppression of Information,” News from Africa Watch, 30 August 1990, 23-24,
quoted in Ann Elizabeth Mayer, “The Fundamentalist Impact on Law, Politics, and
Constitutions in Iran, Pakistan, and the Sudan,” Fundamentalisms and the State, eds. Martin E.
Marty and R. Scott Appleby (Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1993), 113-14.
830 “Sudan: Suppression,” 23-24.
831 Akbar S. Ahmed, “Pakistan’s Blasphemy Law: Words Fail Me,” Washington Post, 17 May
2002.
832 “Malaysia: Christian Persecution in Malaysia,” International Christian Concern website
[online] [cited 7 June 2002]; available at
http://www.persecution.org/humanrights/malaysia.html.
833 “Bosnia and Herzegovina--Christian Persecution in Bosnia and Herzegovina,” International
Christian Concern website [online] [cited 7 June 2002]; available at
http://www.persecution.org/humanrights/bosnia.html.
834 “Middle East,” Microsoft Encarta Encyclopedia 2000.
835 James A. Haught, Holy Hatred: Religious Conflicts of the ’90s (Amherst, NY: Prometheus
Books), 124-25.
836 Haught, Holy Hatred, 129.
837 Albert J. Menendez, Visions of Reality: What Fundamentalist Schools Teach (Buffalo:
Prometheus Books, 1993), 8-9.
838 See, for example, Randall Balmer, Blessed Assurance: A History of Evangelicalism in
America (Boston: Beacon Press, 1999), 28-30.
839 Colin Campbell, “Faith Seems Increasingly Linked with Killing Others,” Atlanta Journal and
Constitution, 14 March 2002, A-14.
840 Miroslav Hroch and Anna Skybova, Ecclesia Miltans: The Inquisition, translated by Janet
Fraser (Germany: Edition Leipzig, 1988).
841 Leonard W. Levy, Blasphemy: Verbal Offense Against the Sacred, from Moses to Salman
Rushdie, (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1993), 65-69.
842 The widespread use of the Bible by clergymen in the American South to support slavery
(and, later, segregation and racial discrimination) is well-documented. See, for example, Edward
T. Babinski, Leaving the Fold: Testimonies of Former Fundamentalists (Amherst, NY:
Prometheus Books, 1995), 35-39; “Alabama candidate for U.S. House says Bible justifies
slavery,” Dallas Morning News, 10 May 1996, 7-A; E.N. Elliott, Cotton is King and Pro-
Slavery Arguments (Augusta, GA: Pritchard, Abbott, & Loomis, 1860); E. W. Heaton,
Everyday Life in Old Testament Times (NY: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1956), 142-143; and Judy
Notes 269
Elliott, “Author takes fresh look at the Good Book—and slavery,” Marietta (Georgia) Daily
Journal, 7 June 1998.
843 See for example, Daniel Jonah Goldhagen, Hitler's Willing Executioners: Ordinary Germans
and the Holocaust (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1996); or Robert P. Ericksen and Susannah
Heschel, eds., Betrayal—German Churches and the Holocaust (Minneapolis: Fortress Press,
1999).
844 Dayton (Tennessee) Herald-News, 15 February 2002.
845 Rod L. Evans and Irwin M. Berent, Fundamentalism: Hazards and Heartbreaks (LaSalle,
Illinois: Open Court, 1988), 153.
846 Evans, Fundamentalism, 154.
847 Marlene Winell, Leaving the Fold: A Guide for Former Fundamentalists and Others Leaving
Their Religion (Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications, Inc., 1993).
848 Kimberly Blaker, “Christian Fundamentalism: A Growing Danger,” first-place research
paper in the category of philosophy/religious studies in the Student Scholars at Michigan’s Two-
Year Colleges 1998 conference.
849 Frederick Clarkson, Eternal Hostility: The Struggle Between Theocracy and Democracy
(Monroe, Maine: Common Courage Press, 1997), 203.
850 Clarkson, Eternal Hostility, 203-216.
851 Robert Boston, Close Encounters with the Religious Right: Journeys Into the Twilight Zone
of Religion and Politics (Amherst, NY: Prometheus Books, 2000), 261-270.
852 Karen Armstrong, A History of God: The 4000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and
Islam (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1994), 391.
853 Armstrong, A History, 399.
854 Karen Armstrong, The Battle for God, (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2000), 364.
855 Armstrong, The Battle, 368.
856 Armstrong, The Battle, 368.
857 Armstrong, The Battle, 368.
858 Armstrong, A History.
859 Balmer, Blessed Assurance, 140.
860 Randall Balmer, Mine Eyes Have Seen the Glory: A Journey into the Evangelical Subculture
in America, Expanded Edition (New York: Oxford University Press, 1993), 277.
861 Balmer, Blessed Assurance, 101.
862 John Shelby Spong, Rescuing the Bible from Fundamentalism: A Bishop Rethinks the
Meaning of Scripture (San Francisco: Harper San Francisco/Harper Collins Paperback, 1992),
247.
863 Spong, Rescuing, 5.
864 Lloyd J. Averill, Religious Right, Religious Wrong: A Critique of the Fundamentalist
Phenomenon (New York: The Pilgrim Press, 1990), 12.
865 Averill, Religious, 103.
866 Averill, Religious, 157-175.
867 Bruce Bawer, Stealing Jesus: How Fundamentalism Betrays Christianity (New York: Crown
Publishers, 1997), 307
868 Bawer, Stealing Jesus, 326-327.
869 Lorene Hanley Duquin, When a Loved One Leaves the Church (Huntington, Indiana: Our
Sunday Visitor, Inc., 2001) 152-153.
870 Duquin, When a Loved, 152.
871 The Academy of Humanism, Neo-Fundamentalism: The Humanist Response (Buffalo:
Prometheus Books, 1988).
872 Vern Bullough, “The Return to Islamic Fundamentalism,” The Academy of Humanism, Neo-
Fundamentalism: The Humanist Response (Buffalo: Prometheus Books, 1988), 51.
270 The Fundamentals of Extremism
873 Alberto Hidalgo Tuñon, “The Dilemma of Fundamentalism,” The Academy of Humanism,
Neo-Fundamentalism: The Humanist Response (Buffalo: Prometheus Books, 1988), 91.
874 Paul Kurtz, “The Growth of Fundamentalism Worldwide,” The Academy of Humanism,
Neo-Fundamentalism: The Humanist Response (Buffalo: Prometheus Books, 1988), 20.
875 Kurtz, “The Growth,” 21.
876 Kurtz, “The Growth,” 24.
877 Gerald LaRue, “The Threat of Neo-Fundamentalism,” The Academy of Humanism, Neo-
Fundamentalism: The Humanist Response (Buffalo: Prometheus Books, 1988), 38.
878 Paul Kurtz, personal interview, October 2001.
879 Marvin Harris, Our Kind: Who We Are, Where We Came From, Where We Are Going (New
York: Harper & Row, Publishers, 1989), 401.
880 Harris, Our Kind, 414.
881 Keith M. Parsons (editor: Edward M. Buckner), Why I Am Not a Christian (Roswell,
Georgia: The Freethought Press, Atlanta Freethought Society, 2000), 1.
882 Parsons (editor: Edward M. Buckner), Why I Am Not.
883 Toby Lester, “Oh Gods!,” The Atlantic Monthly, February 2002, 37.
884 Lester, “Oh Gods!” 38.
885 Lester, “Oh Gods!” 39.
886 Barry A. Kosmin, Egon Mayer, and Ariela Keysar, American Religious Identification
Survey, 2001 (New York: Graduate Center of the City University of New York, 2001), 17.
887 Kosmin, American, 19.
888 Kosmin, American, 13.
889 Dan Barker, Losing Faith in Faith: From Preacher to Atheist (Madison, Wisconsin: Freedom
From Religion Foundation, Inc., 1992).
890 Edward T. Babinski, ed., Leaving the Fold: Testimonies of Former Fundamentalists
(Amherst, NY: Prometheus Books, 1995).
891 Bob Altemeyer and Bruce Hunsberger, Amazing Conversions: Why Some Turn to Faith and
Others Abandon Religion (Amherst, NY: Prometheus Books, 1997).
892 Altemeyer, Amazing, 212-13.
893 Babinski, Leaving the Fold: Testimonies of Former Fundamentalists, throughout, but
especially in the “Introduction,” 15-17.
894 David Montoya, “The Political Disease Known as Fundamentalism,” in Babinski, Leaving
the Fold: Testimonies of Former Fundamentalists, 132.
895 Farrell Till, “From Preacher to Skeptic,” in Babinski, Leaving the Fold: Testimonies of
Former Fundamentalists, 294.
896 Maxine Parshall, Email Correspondence to Kimberly Blaker, May 2002.
897 Thomas Jefferson, letter to Benjamin Rush, April 21, 1803; from Daniel B. Baker, ed.,
Political Quotations (Detroit: Gale Research, Inc., 1990), 189.
898 John Adams, “A Defence of the Constitutions of Government of the United States of
America” [1787-1788]; from Adrienne Koch, ed., The American Enlightenment: The Shaping
of the American Experiment and a Free Society (New York: George Braziller, 1965), 258.
899 Notes on the State of Virginia, Query XVII, Torchbook Edition, (New York: Harper & Row
Publishers, 1964,) 152.
900 Michael E. Buckner, “The UnChristian Roots of the Fourth of July,” Secular Web [online]
[cited 8 March 2002]; available at
http://www.infidels.org/library/modern/features/2000/buckner1.html.