
GO TO HELL*

There are millions of people who have been very naughty and will not make their way into heaven. Go to hell! Enterprise is selling large air-conditioned condominiums at a very low price of $666. While you are in Hell we at Go to Hell! Enterprises have only one goal, to make your afterlife pleasurable. We regret there has been very negative descriptions about Hell. They are all lies just for scaring the Hell out of you. Go to Hell! Enterprise is owned and operated by little Devils (we are sometimes known as We here at Go to Hell! Will give you all that was denied to you on earth. All that you get here in Go to Hell! is Free. We Satan) we have been portrayed as being very wicked and mean. The cause of our character assignation is because we offer good times  when you Go to Hell instead of the boring time you would sure to have in that other place. offer you all the ice-cold beer you can drink. And all the juicy fat covered steaks you can eat and ice cream galore. Those of you who are thieves steal as much as you want. In Go to Hell! There is no such thing as crime. Psychopaths you can act out all of your anti social behavior without the fear. You will never be caught. To all criminals, commit all the crime you want every crime is a perfect crime in Go to Hell!
Men you know were bad girls go. Ho to Hell! Have bad girls of all sizes and shapes we have millions of bad girls. Women are you looking for that special man? We at Go to Hell! Have men that will satisfy the most discriminating woman. Christians we give you extra special service because it was you that gave us so much free publicity. If you are here because you used gods name in vain here in Go to Hell! You can curse god as much as you like. In fact, we encourage you to do so. Here in Go to Hell! there is no such thing as adultery, wife or husband swapping is encouraged just for fun.
We welcome all Christians who have sinned. While you are here in Go to Hell! You can sin as much as you like. According to Catholic dogma, there are seven mortal sins. Here at Go to Hell! You can be as gluttonous, full of avarice , slothful, prideful, and covetous, or even envy, as you like and we encourage you to be lustful and if you are angry, we give you all the support you need. We want to give you one Hell of a good time. You Christians never thought you would end up here the reason that you are is because of your pretend piety but have no fear we at Go to Hell! will see to it that you enjoy your eternity here. It should be obvious that there will be more fun in Go to Hell! So rejoice that your sinning brought you here to Go to Hell!.
Yours truly,
Satan, and you can Go to Hell!
*Go To Hell! Is owned by Dr. Newton Joseph. Recorded/filed in official records. Recorder's office Los Angeles County California 10:41 am Jan 07 2000 #00-0028110 

