Whereas dangers and threats to our Nation persist and, in this time of peril, it is appropriate that the people of the United States, leaders and citizens alike, seek guidance, strength, and resolve through prayer and fasting: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That it is the sense of the House of Representatives that the President should issue a proclamation —
    (1) designating a day for humility, prayer, and fasting for all people of the United States; and
    (2) calling on all people of the United States—
      (A) to observe the day as a time of prayer and fasting;
      (B) to seek guidance from God to achieve a greater understanding of our own failings and
            to learn how we can do better in our everyday activities; and
      (C) to gain resolve in meeting the challenges that confront our Nation.
— H. RES. 153, 108th CONGRESS, March 27, 2003, passed by an overwhelming vote
    NOTE: A similar bill in the Senate passed unanimously


"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof;..."
— from the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution

"... no religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United States."
— from Article VI of the U.S. Constitution

"The Government of the United States is not in any sense founded on the Christian religion."
— from The Treaty of Tripoli, written during the administration of President George Washington, signed by President John Adams and unanimously approved by the Senate in 1797.


"In every country and every age, the priest had been hostile to Liberty."
— Thomas Jefferson

"Christianity neither is, nor ever was a part of the common law."
— Thomas Jefferson, letter to Dr. Thomas Cooper, February 10, 1814

"History, I believe, furnishes no example of a priest-ridden people maintaining a free civil government.  This marks the lowest grade of ignorance, of which their political as well as religious leaders will always avail themselves for their own purposes."
— Thomas Jefferson, Letter to Alexander Humboldt, 1813

"It is error alone which needs the support of government.  Truth can stand by itself."
— Thomas Jefferson

"Believing that religion is a matter which lies solely between man and his God, that he owes account to none other for his faith or his worship, that the legitimate powers of government reach actions only, and not opinions, I contemplate with sovereign reverence that act of the whole American people which declared that their Legislature should "make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof," thus building a wall of separation between Church and State."
— Thomas Jefferson (1743-1826), 3rd U.S. President (1801-1809), letter to Danbury Baptists, 1802

"Lighthouses are more helpful than churches."
— Benjamin Franklin

"I have found Christian dogma unintelligible.  Early in life I absented myself from Christian assemblies."
— Benjamin Franklin, Toward The Mystery

"Nothing is more dreaded than the national government meddling with religion."
— John Adams

"There is no god higher than truth."
— Mahatma Ghandi

"Most men would kill the truth if truth would kill their religion."
— Lemuel Washburn

"During almost fifteen centuries has the legal establishment of Christianity been on trial.  What has been its fruits?  More or less, in all places, pride and indolence in the clergy; ignorance and servility in the laity; in both, superstition, bigotry and persecution."
— James Madison - chief architect of the Constitution and the Bill of Rights.

"Who does not see that the same authority, which can establish Christianity, in exclusion of all other Religions, may establish with the same ease any particular sect of Christians, in exclusion of all other Sects?"
— James Madison (1751-1836) 4th U.S. President (1809-1817) "A Memorial and Remonstrance Against Religious Assessments," addressed to the Virginia General Assemby, 1785

"Religious bondage shackles and debilitates the mind and unfits it for every noble enterprise"
— James Madison, letter to William Bradford, April 1, 1771

"It degrades from the equal rank of Citizens all those whose opinions in Religion do not bend to those of the Legislative authority.  Distant as it may be in its present form from the Inquisition, it differs from it only in degree."
— James Madison

"Strongly guarded as is the separation between Religion and Government in the Constitution of the United States, the danger of encroachment by Ecclesiastical Bodies may be illustrated by precedents already furnished in their short history."
— James Madison, undated, Detached Memoranda

"The establishment of the chaplainship to Congress is a palpable violation of ... constitutional principles."
— James Madison, undated, Detached Memoranda

"There is not a shadow of right in the general government to intermingle with religion.  Its least interference with it would be a most flagrant usurpation."
— James Madison

"To remain silent when one should protest makes cowards out of men."
— Abraham Lincoln

"The Bible is not my Book and Christianity is not my religion.  I could never give assent to the long complicated statements of Christian dogma."
— Abraham Lincoln

"Blasphemy?  No, it is not blasphemy.  If God is as vast as that, he is above blasphemy; if He is as little as that, He is beneath it."
— Mark Twain

"The Christian religion, as organized in its churches, has been and still is the principal enemy of moral progress in the world".
— Bertrand Russell

"The dignity of man lies in his ability to face reality in all its meaninglessness."
— Martin Esslin

"A tyrant must put on the appearance of uncommon devotion to religion.  Subjects are less apprehensive of illegal treatment from a ruler whom they consider god-fearing and pious.  On the other hand, they do less easily move against him, believing that he has the gods on his side."
— Aristotle (ca. 384-322 B.C.E.) Greek philosopher

"We cannot permit any inquisition either within or without the law or apply any religious test to the holding of office.  The mind of America must be forever free."
— Calvin Coolidge, 30th U.S. President, Inaugural Address, March 4, 1925

"We have abundant reason to rejoice that in this Land the light of truth and reason has triumphed over the power of bigotry and superstition ... In this enlightened Age and in this Land of equal liberty it is our boast, that a man's religious tenets will not forfeit the protection of the Laws, nor deprive him of the right of attaining and holding the highest Offices that are known in the United States."
— George Washington (1732-1799) 1st U.S. President, letter to the members of the New Church in Baltimore, 1793, in Anson Phelps Stokes, Church and State in the United States, Vol 1. p. 497, quoted from The Great Quotations on Religious Freedom

"Religious controversies are always productive of more acrimony and irreconcilable hatreds than those which spring from any other cause."
— George Washington

"Now those who seek absolute power, even though they seek it to do what they regard as good, are simply demanding the right to enforce their own version of heaven on earth, and let me remind you they are the very ones who always create the most hellish tyranny."
— Barry Goldwater

"The mixing of government and religion can be a threat to free government, even if no one is forced to participate....  When the government puts its imprimatur on a particular religion, it conveys a message of exclusion to all those who do not adhere to the favored beliefs.  A government cannot be premised on the belief that all persons are created equal when it asserts that God prefers some."
— Harry Andrew Blackmun, U.S. Supreme Court Justice, majority opinion in Lee v. Weisman, 1992
