The user account 'Godlessgeek' at Infidel Guy Radio: Atheism Freethought Atheist Debate has this
email associated with it. A Web user from 12.234.103.197 has just requested a Confirmation Code
to change the password.

Password: 808080 (was 807070)

Your Confirmation Code is: fe752a624f



================================

It is probably true that some POWs' lives were more difficult because of what John Kerry said.  However, I think that this is more a case of blaming the messenger and ignoring the message.  A larger case can be made for the question of how many soldiers' lives were saved because of the anti-war efforts by many veterans and others who had the guts to tell the U.S. that the Viet Nam war was wrong.  This is a position that most people now believe.  Should our soldiers have continued to kill and be killed in a war that was wrong and unwinnable?

The "Swift Boat Veterans for Truth" has a classic Orwellian name.  They aren't for truth and didn't serve with Kerry.  The men who did serve with Kerry support him as an honorable man.

The 3 "facts" put forth by SansAgod have no basis.

"Fact" 1: The reality is the fact that our Social Security system faces some serious tests as baby boomers reach retirement age, and will expect a return on the money that they've paid.  George Bush's response to this has been to loot the current Social Security fund to pay keep the gov't. running -- necessary in part because of his fiscally irresponsible reductions of taxes on the very rich, his "faith-based" handouts to religions, and his immoral, stupid war in Iraq.

"Fact" 2: There is no basis for this statement.  It is simply right-wing slander.

"Fact" 3: There is no basis for this statement either.  If we want class wars, the continuing trend of the rich getting richer while almost everyone else gets poorer will certainly increase the odds.

Any election at the end of a president's first term is largely a referendum on his performance.  Let's consider what G.W. Bush said four years ago, and what he's done since then.

In the campaign of 2000, George W. Bush was the classic stealth candidate.  He ran as a compassionate conservative, but after he assumed office we found out that he is an evangelical conservative Christian.  Candidate Bush pledged that his tax cut proposals would be "especially focused on low and moderate income families."  President Bush has shifted the tax burden to middle class families while giving tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans.  Candidate Bush said he believed gay marriage is a state issue.  President Bush proposed a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage.  Candidate Bush supported the ban on assault rifles.  President Bush listened to the NRA and allowed the ban to expire.  Candidate Bush promised to place mandatory caps on carbon dioxide emissions to help control global warming.  President Bush withdrew American support from the Kyoto Treaty to regulate carbon dioxide.  Candidate Bush promised an open government.  President Bush has created one of the most secretive administrations in recent history.  Candidate Bush promised a "humble" foreign policy.  President Bush has too often adopted a highhanded approach to the world that has alienated our allies and provoked our enemies.  Candidate Bush demeaned nation building.  President Bush invaded a country to do just that.  Candidate Bush talked about bringing people together.  President Bush has managed to divide the people of the U.S. and the world like no one else in recent times.

President Bush has damaged much of what made America great.  By practically unilaterally invading Iraq, Bush has corroded our position of moral leadership, aggravated most of our allies, and created more anti-American terrorists.  By invading with specious reasons, Bush has damaged our integrity and greatly undermined the war on terror.  By subordinating national security to politics, Bush has endangered our nation.  By scrapping the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty Bush has damaged our diplomatic leadership and increased our dangers, while spending tens of billions of dollars on unproven technology.  By withdrawing from the Kyoto treaty, Bush has lost any international authority we had in protecting the environment, while increasing global warming.  By gutting many of our environmental regulations, Bush is damaging our environment.  By bringing more religion into government and giving handouts to religious organizations, Bush has weakened the separation of church and state that is one of the pillars of our Constitution.  By using his religion to prevent federal funding of stem cell research, Bush has seriously hindered work on promising medical breakthroughs that could benefit many of us.  By reducing taxes while going to war (something no other civilization has ever done) Bush has created deep deficits and threatened our future economy.  What could Bush accomplish if given four more years?

For more articles (and even humor) about Bush and his regime, check out http://www.godlessgeeks.com/Politics.htm


