>Religion Essential
>Charley Reese
>May 31, 2004
>
>I have come to believe that one can have a successful Christian society,
>Jewish society, Muslim society, Hindu society or Buddhist society, but not an
>agnostic or atheistic society that is successful.
>
>(snip) I surprised some people once
>by saying that I would rather live in a neighborhood of Islamic
>fundamentalists than in a neighborhood of atheists and agnostics. That's true.
>You can count on the morality that Islam teaches; there is no morality for
>atheists and agnostics, except what they arbitrarily choose.
>
>© 2004 by King Features Syndicate, Inc.
>
>http://reese.king-online.com/Reese_20040531/index.php
>
>----------------------------------------------------------------------

Greetings-

I have several points to make, in reply to Charley Reese's column of 
May 31, 2004.

First, there is no evidence that religious folk are any more moral in 
practice than nonbelievers. In fact, the evidence points the other 
way. In the U.S. of A., believers are more than forty times as likely 
to end up in prison than nonbelievers. Nonbelievers are 0.2% of the 
prison polulation, and roughly 10% of the general population. See
  http://www.freethought.freeservers.com/reason/crimestats.html

Second, Mr. Reese need have no fear of living in a neighborhood of 
atheists and agnostics. He would be in good company. For a list of 
famous nonbelievers in history, see

Famous dead nontheists

http://www.visi.com/~markg/atheists.html

Some names:
Epicurus, Lucretius, Christopher Marlowe, Simon Bolivar, John Stuart 
Mill, Walt Whitman, Andrew Carnegie, Mark Twain, Luther Burbank, 
Marie and Pierre Curie, Robert Frost, Albert Einstein, James Joyce, 
Irving Berlin, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Margaret Sanger, Charles 
Chaplin, Linus Pauling, Katherine Hepburn, Gene Kelly, Francois 
Mitterrand, Richard Feynman, Isaac Asimov, Charles Schultz, Richard 
Burton, Frank Lloyd Wright.

For a list of famous nonbelievers still living, see
Celebrity (living) atheist list

http://www.celebatheists.com/

Some names:
Warren Buffet, Dick Cavett, Marlon Brando, Albert Ellis, Brian Eno, 
Jules Feiffer, Ira Glass, Jodie Foster, Bill Gates, Angelina Jolie, 
Barry Manilow, Sir Ian McKellan, Hans Moravec, Desmond Morris, Jack 
Nicholson, Ron Reagan, Jr., Christopher Reeve, George Soros, Steve 
Wozniak.

Third, religious folk do not really have any morality. They 
misunderstand morality at its roots. Certainly for society to 
survive, the people must agree that killing and stealing are wrong. 
The question is, WHY are they wrong? Religion says, because the 
priests report that the Bogeyman said so. The priests are not 
actually against killing and stealing, they are just opposed to 
disobedience. If the divine is alleged by the priests to command 
killing and stealing, then in their view it is right to kill and 
steal. See Numbers 31, for example.  (Many other examples available 
on request.)

Just as religious faith is believing what you are told, so religious 
morality is doing what you are told. Religious "morality" consists of 
obeying the alleged will of God, as reported by your chosen 
authority. But obedience is not morality, and morality is not 
obedience. We can all think of famous people who did good things 
while rebelling against authority, and others who did evil things 
while obeying authority. Religious folk may be Good Samaritans or 
suicide bombers, it depends entirely on what their chosen authority 
orders them to do.

I am not saying that all believers are without morals. Some can 
practice a morality that rivals even the greatest of atheist social 
reformers. It is only that they have no basis for their morality, 
other than believing what they are told. They do not have a code of 
morality except by the convenience of the priesthood. What they have 
is a code of obedience, which is not the same thing.

It is true that when you are a religious believer, someone is handing 
you a set of rules and principles for behavior, and when you are an 
atheist, nobody does this for you. If you want such a set of 
guidelines, you have to figure it out for yourself. Nevertheless, the 
claim that atheists are without morals IS both false and insulting. 
There is a long history of philosophical thinking about ethics, going 
back at least to the ancient Greeks, that makes no use of the 
Bogeyman. Morality is not based on authority, but on reason and 
compassion.

If I had to recommend just one book on ethics, it would be GOOD AND 
EVIL: A NEW DIRECTION by Richard Taylor. If I were allowed to add a 
couple more, I'd recommend THE ELEMENTS OF MORAL PHILOSOPHY by James 
Rachels and SCIENCE AND HUMAN VALUES by Jacob Bronowski. These books 
are far, far better than any "sacred text", for teaching morality.

------------------------------------

John B. Hodges, jbhodges@usit.net