"I know there are no guarantees in love, We're always taking chances. But I'll risk everything and love you. no matter what the circumstances."

"We come to love, not by finding a perfect person, but by learning to see an imperfect person, perfectly."

"Have you ever been in love? Horrible, isn't it? It makes you so vulnerable. It opens your chest and opens your heart and it means that someone can get inside you and mess you up. You build up all these defenses. You build up this whole armor, for years, so no one can hurt you, then one stupid person, no different from any other stupid person, wanders into your stupid life.... You give them a piece of you. They don't ask for it. They do something dumb one day, like kiss you or smile at you, and then your life isn't your own anymore. love takes hostages. It gets inside you. It eats you out and leaves you crying in the darkness, so a simple phrase like 'maybe we should just be friends' turns into a glass splinter working its way into your heart. It hurts. Not just in the mind. It's a soul hurt, a body hurt, a real gets-inside-you-and-rips-you-apart pain. I hate love."

"If you think you love 2 people at once then you don't love either enough."

"To love is to risk not being loved in return. To hope is to risk pain. To try is to risk failure, but risks must be taken, because the greatest hazard in life is to risk nothing."


"Love is giving someone the ability to destroy you but trusting them not to."

"If you can stop loving somebody, you never loved them in the first place."

"The distance doesn't matter; it is only the first step that is difficult."

"Take charge of your life of someone else will."

"To think too long about doing something often becomes its undoing."

"Heroes and cowards feel the same fear. Heroes act differently that's all."

"We maybe disappointed if we fail, but we are doomed if we don't try."

"Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one's courage."
-- Anais Nin

"Ships are safe at dock, but that's not what they are used for."


"Pay attention to your thoughts, because they become words. Pay attention to your words, because they become actions. Pay attention to your actions, because they become habits. Pay attention to your habits, because they become your character. Pay attention to your character, because it becomes your fate."

