From: Mark Thomas, President of Atheists of Silicon Valley

Hello Dr. Saam,

Thank you for your letter.

I agree with your two-fold mission of promoting science and destroying the myth of god.  However I find it incongruous that you use the religious and worshipful term "his holiness."  I also find it difficult to support the Raelian Movement's leadership of your "year of Atheism."  As I see it, Raelians seem to substitute worship of god/gods with worship of Rael and aliens.

It is interesting that you want to promote science; yet, as far as I know, there is no scientific evidence for aliens.

Best regards,
Mark Thomas





----Original Message Follows----
From: "Dr. Mehran Saam" <mehranraeli@comcast.net>
To: mark@godlessgeeks.com
Subject: 2004 - Year of atheism
Date: Mon, 26 Apr 2004 01:05:19 -0500

 April 26, 2004

Dear Sir, Madam,

As a representative of the Raelian Movement, I am writing to seek
your collaboration in renouncing the Church and god in this year of
Atheism.  Religions multiply their crimes, but science saves, cures
and embellishes our lives. The same decision-makers who claim the
support of their gods to justify their wars and acts of terrorism,
repeatedly call forth overused ethical arguments against progress in
order to slow down and stop scientific achievement. Science and
scientific understanding is the force helping humanity emerge from
thousands of years of ignorance, violence and suffering.

The Raelian Movement has the two-fold mission of promoting science
and destroying the myth of god. It is within this context that the
year 2004 was declared *the Year of Atheism* by His Holiness Rael,
the founder of the Raelian Movement, who has initiated a series of
worldwide actions promoting atheism.

The first of these actions was the worldwide mobilization of 60,000
Raelians and people of good conscience who felt the need to denounce
the Catholic Church.  It took place on February 17th in many cities
around the world to commemorate the death of Giordano Bruno, burned
alive during the Inquisition because he embraced scientific concepts
that are proven today and yet were intolerable to the Catholic
Church. The highlight of the year of Atheism is scheduled to take
place on December 13th, 2004 in Rome, at the very location where
Bruno was burned alive. The focus of our action in Rome will be the
promotion of atheism and denunciation of the Catholic Church for
their crimes against human rationality and genius.

We are promoting this gathering of atheists globally and we are
hoping your organization would be interested in supporting this
action and participate with us.

We also follow and wish to participate in your plans and activities
that contribute to promotion of atheism. We would like us to unite
our efforts to reach our common desired goal, i.e. to free the future
generations from the atrophying divine concept of a god and to
prevent further suffering at the hands of god-believing fanatics.

If you wish to meet or have more information on our actions in this
regard or if you wish to have our support and participation in your
actions, please reply and let us know. I am very excited to contact
you as I believe our organizations share some most important
objectives and together I know we can turn aspirations into very
tangible results.

I look forward to working with you. 

Cordially,

Dr. Mehran Saam
Raelian Movement: www.rael.org {http://www.rael.org}
Email: mehranraeli@comcast.net {mailto:mehranraeli@comcast.net}
PO Box 142482
Austin, TX 78714-2482
Tel: 866.895.4202
