Page I


x
About two thousand years ago there were two stand-up comedians that met by
chance. One was an older comic while the other was new to the comedy circuit.
Their names were Jesus and Jehovah. They were not very successful as
comics. They thought if they teamed up, they could put a good act together that
would give them fame and fortune. Unfortunately, both men lacked originality.
They put their heads together and decided they would take the best humor of
the past three thousand years as their act. They would change the names,
dates, and places and use their names for the main characters, and their
audience would be none the wiser. Knowing that 99.9 percent of the population
was illiterate, they were confident their old jokes would be taken for new jokes
that would last for thousands of years.
Jehovah wrote a joke book a long time ago called the old joke book and people
thought these were some of the best jokes they ever had heard and laughed
their heads off. Most people liked the sexy parts. It was the funny vulgar parts
that their audience loved to hear. They thought all the murder and rape in the
old joke book was hilarious.
They plagiarized the old jokes and funny stories from the past and added some
color to hide the jokes' true age. They were confident no one would catch onto
what they were up to.
To make the story really funny they wrote into their joke book that the
character Jesus was his son and father at the same time. Being his own father
he, condemned himself to be crucified, and being his own son, he suffered
death. You have to give these comics a hand at writing madcap humor
How about the idea that after he, Jesus that is, was dead and came back
to life three days latter he disappeared into the clouds. This joke was always a
crowed pleaser, but there were some people who lacked a sense of humor.
Most people took this joke to be serious and people have been waiting for his
return from the clouds ever since. (You have to ask don't they have a sense of
humor?)
The joke, the father of all jokes, they would tell their audience was that
the mother of Jesus was a virgin, this joke usually brought down the house, as
Page I

Page2.
they say in vaudeville. To add to the gaiety of their humor they added a
character called the Holy Ghost, who not only impregnated the mother of Jesus,
not only was the father of Jesus, but he was Jesus. They were sure this joke
was so funny that their audience would fall off their bar stools. To add to the
hilarity of the joke, they said that three people, Jesus, himself as his own
father, and Jesus as his own son, and the Holy Ghost were all one person. This
joke usually had their audience rolling on the floor with laughter. To compound
the humor they said that the three who are one are invisible. What makes this
joke really funny is one times  three isn't three but, but one, and this was certainly good for a belly laugh.
One has to have a good sense of humor to think that up.
But soon trouble erupted between them. Jesus was jealous of the way Jehovah
told his jokes from his old joke book. Jesus was confident that his purloined
jokes could cause just as much laughter, or maybe more, from his joke book,
which he called the "new" joke book. They weren't really new, just polished up
old ones. He was, as I said, not very original, so he stole the jokes of other
comics. Knowing that his audience fell for these old jokes dressed up as new, he
had a great time - just as much as his audience did.
Jehovah and Jesus wanted to leave their legacy to humankind; they were
the best stand up comics, knowing that most were people were credulous when
they read old jokes dressed up with new names, and thinking they were as
fresh as daisies as yokels have done for thousands of years.
They never dreamed their two joke books would be taken seriously, but
this only proves that there are those who can't take a joke.





ANOTHER NEW COMIC
XXX
There was a young comic whose name is Allah who grew up reading the Old and New joke books by Jesus and Jehovah who didn't think their jokes were very funny. He thought he could write a funnier joke book that he would call the Koran or the New, New Joke Book. He was able to gather a band of people who enjoyed humor and liked to laugh who called themselves Muslims, they thought his joke book were undeniably funny. I agree that the Koran is funnier then the Old and New joke book. However, a Muslim could think the jokes were funny but they could not express that they were funny. Those who openly laughed at Allah's jokes would have their head chopped off. Soon there were underground cells that met once a month to drink beer and read Allah's joke book aloud and they laughed their heads off (pardon the pun).
    There have been some who could not control their laughter and they made the mistake of laughing aloud like Salamon Rushdie. Now he has to hide so they would not chop his head off. This is why Muslims take the Koran seriously. You can rarely find a Muslim who will admit the Koran is funny.
New 10.
drnjoseph@socal.rr,com