Umm... I realize this is about the war -- but so much of it rings true 
about the group-think I found common among the religion I grew up in. 
The stories we tell each other and why we find them convincing 

Chris Lindstrom 

-------------

Posted April 3, 2003 - The Nation 
The Press and the Myths of War 
by CHRIS HEDGES 

In wartime the press is always part of the problem. This has been true 
since the Crimean War, when William Howard Russell wrote his account of the 
charge of the Light Brigade and invented the profession of the modern war 
correspondent. When the nation goes to war, the press goes to war with 
it. The blather on CNN or Fox or MSNBC is part of a long and sad tradition. 

The narrative we are fed about war by the state, the entertainment 
industry and the press is a myth. And this myth is seductive. It empowers and 
ennobles us. It boosts rating and sells newspapers--William Randolph 
Hearst owed his fortune to it. It allows us to suspend individual conscience, 
maybe even consciousness, for the cause. And few of us are immune. Indeed, 
social critics who normally excoriate the established order, and who also long 
for acceptance and acclaim, are some of the most susceptible. It is what 
led a mind as great as Freud's to back, at least at its inception, the folly 
of World War I. The contagion of war, of the siren call of the nation, is 
so strong that most cannot resist. 

War is where I have spent most of my adult life. I began covering the 
insurgencies in El Salvador, where I spent five years, then went to 
Guatemala and Nicaragua and Colombia, through the first intifada in the 
West Bank and Gaza, the civil wars in Sudan and Yemen, the uprisings in 
Algeria and the Punjab, the fall of the Romanian dictator Nicolae Ceausescu, the 
Gulf War, the Kurdish rebellions in southeastern Turkey and northern 
Iraq, the war in Bosnia, and finally Kosovo. I have been in ambushes on 
desolate stretches of Central American roads, shot at in the marshes of southern 
Iraq, imprisoned in Sudan, beaten by Saudi military police, deported 
from Libya and Iran, captured and held prisoner for a week by the Iraqi 
Republican Guard during the Shiite rebellion following the Gulf War, 
strafed by MIG-21s in Bosnia, fired upon by Serb snipers and shelled for days in 
Sarajevo with deafening rounds of heavy artillery that threw out 
thousands of deadly bits of iron fragments. I have painful memories that lie 
buried and untouched most of the time. It is never easy when they surface. 

War itself is venal, dirty, confusing and perhaps the most potent 
narcotic invented by humankind. Modern industrial warfare means that most of 
those who are killed never see their attackers. There is nothing glorious or 
gallant about it. If we saw what wounds did to bodies, how killing is 
far more like butchering an animal than the clean and neat Hollywood deaths 
on the screen, it would turn our stomachs. If we saw how war turns young 
people into intoxicated killers, how it gives soldiers a license to destroy not 
only things but other human beings, and if we saw the perverse thrill 
such destruction brings, we would be horrified and frightened. If we 
understood that combat is often a constant battle with a consuming fear we have 
perhaps never known, a battle that we often lose, we would find the abstract 
words of war--glory, honor and patriotism--not only hollow but obscene. If we 
saw the deep psychological scars of slaughter, the way it maims and stunts 
those who participate in war for the rest of their lives, we would keep our 
children away. Indeed, it would be hard to wage war. 

For war, when we confront it truthfully, exposes the darkness within 
all of us. This darkness shatters the illusions many of us hold not only about 
the human race but about ourselves. Few of us confront our own capacity for 
evil, but this is especially true in wartime. And even those who engage 
in combat are afterward given cups from the River Lethe to forget. And with 
each swallow they imbibe the myth of war. For the myth makes war 
palatable. It gives war a logic and sanctity it does not possess. It saves us from 
peering into the darkest recesses of our own hearts. And this is why we 
like it. It is why we clamor for myth. The myth is enjoyable, and the press, 
as is true in every nation that goes to war, is only too happy to oblige. 
They dish it up and we ask for more. 

War as myth begins with blind patriotism, which is always thinly veiled 
self-glorification. We exalt ourselves, our goodness, our decency, our 
humanity, and in that self-exaltation we denigrate the other. The flip 
side of nationalism is racism--look at the jokes we tell about the French. It 
feels great. War as myth allows us to suspend judgment and personal 
morality for the contagion of the crowd. War means we do not face death alone. We 
face it as a group. And death is easier to bear because of this. We 
jettison all the moral precepts we have about the murder of innocent civilians, 
including children, and dismiss atrocities of war as the regrettable 
cost of battle. As I write this article, hundreds of thousands of innocent 
people, including children and the elderly, are trapped inside the city of 
Basra in southern Iraq--a city I know well--without clean drinking water. Many 
will die. But we seem, because we imbibe the myth of war, unconcerned with 
the suffering of others. 

Yet, at the same time, we hold up our own victims. These crowds of 
silent dead--our soldiers who made "the supreme sacrifice" and our innocents 
who were killed in the crimes against humanity that took place on 9/11--are 
trotted out to sanctify the cause and our employment of indiscriminate 
violence. To question the cause is to defile the dead. Our dead count. 
Their dead do not. We endow our victims, like our cause, with righteousness. 
And this righteousness gives us the moral justification to commit murder. 
It is an old story. 

In wartime we feel a comradeship that, for many of us, makes us feel 
that for the first time we belong to the nation and the group. We are fooled 
into thinking that in wartime social inequalities have been obliterated. We 
are fooled into feeling that, because of the threat, we care about others 
and others care about us in new and powerful waves of emotion. We are 
giddy. We mistake this for friendship. It is not. Comradeship, the kind that 
comes to us in wartime, is about the suppression of self-awareness, self- 
possession. All is laid at the feet of the god of war. And the cost of this 
comradeship, certainly for soldiers, is self-sacrifice, self-annihilation. In 
wartime we become necrophiliacs. 

The coverage of war by the press has one consistent and pernicious 
theme--the worship of our weapons and our military might. Retired 
officers, breathless reporters, somber news anchors, can barely hold back their 
excitement, which is perverse and--frankly, to those who do not delight 
in watching us obliterate other human beings--disgusting. We are folding 
in on ourselves, losing touch with the outside world, shredding our own 
humanity and turning war into entertainment and a way to empower ourselves as a 
nation and individuals. And none of us are untainted. It is the dirty 
thrill people used to get from watching a public execution. We are hangmen. 
And the excitement we feel is in direct proportion to the rage and anger we 
generate around the globe. We will pay for every bomb we drop on Iraq. 

"The first casualty when war comes," Senator Hiram Johnson said in 
1917, "is truth." 

The reasons for war are hidden from public view. We do not speak about 
the extension of American empire but democracy and ridding the world of 
terrorists--read "evil"--along with weapons of mass destruction. We do 
not speak of the huge corporate interests that stand to gain even as poor 
young boys from Alabama, who joined the Army because this was the only way to 
get health insurance and a steady job, bleed to death along the Euphrates. 
We do not speak of the lies that have been told to us in the past by this 
Administration--for example, the lie that Iraq was on the way to 
building a nuclear bomb. We have been rendered deaf and dumb. And when we awake, it 
will be too late, certainly too late to save the dead, theirs and ours. 

The embedding of several hundred journalists in military units does not 
diminish the lie. These journalists do not have access to their own 
transportation. They depend on the military for everything, from food 
to a place to sleep. They look to the soldiers around them for protection. 
When they feel the fear of hostile fire, they identify and seek to protect 
those who protect them. They become part of the team. It is a natural 
reaction. I have felt it. 

But in that experience, these journalists become participants in the war 
effort. They want to do their bit. And their bit is the dissemination of 
myth, the myth used to justify war and boost the morale of the soldiers 
and civilians. The lie in wartime is almost always the lie of omission. The 
blunders by our generals--whom the mythmakers always portray as 
heroes--along with the rank corruption and perversion, are masked from 
public view. The intoxication of killing, the mutilation of enemy dead, 
the murder of civilians and the fact that war is not about what they claim 
is ignored. But in wartime don't look to the press, or most of it, for 
truth. The press has another purpose. 

Perhaps this is not conscious. I doubt the journalists filing the hollow 
reports from Iraq, in which there are images but rarely any content, are 
aware of how they are being manipulated. They, like everyone else, 
believe. But when they look back they will find that war is always about 
betrayal. It is about betrayal of the young by the old, of soldiers by politicians 
and of idealists by the cynical men who wield power, the ones who rarely pay 
the cost of war. We pay that cost. And we will pay it again. 
